At least six people have died in the past 24 hours with a three-year-old little girl from Alexandra still missing. JOHANNESBURG Several business owners in Edenvale on the East Rand say they have been forced to shut their doors for the rest of the week following heavy flooding in parts of Gauteng.At least six people have died since the heavy rains began on Wednesday, with a three-year-old little girl from Alexandra still missing.Thursday s rain has left a number of businesses, homes and infrastructure damaged.Some business owners in Edenvale say the damage caused by the floods has set them back for at least a week.Christo Botha is a manager at a local car service centre. We started cleaning up but the damages, especially on the alignment bay side, it s terrible. I mean I am out of business for at least a week. Employees at several shops in the area are using machinery to pump out large amounts of water from their work stations.Six cars are still partially submerged in the nearby Jukskei River, where some people are stripping parts off the damaged vehicles.SEARCH FOR MISSING TODDLER TO RESUME Johannesburg Emergency Services are set to resume the search for a three-year-old girl who was washed away by flash floods on Wednesday. The child s father says he cannot believe how he was not able to save his child in time when the levels of the Jukskei River rose and flooded their home.The family has been given shelter at a centre set up by disaster management in the area, but say they have no idea where they will live in future.The father of the three-year-old girl says he lost his grip of the child when the mother tried to hand her over to him. My wife struggled to climb the tree. Just when we thought we were safe, the branch we were sitting on broke. He says he then jumped into the water to try and save his child.#GPstorms The toddler&#39;s father says he jumped into the flood waters to save her but the torrent was too strong and his child was swept away There was nothing I could do. When the child fell into the water and I went after her, the water pulled me as well. I couldn t find my child. ALEXANDRA RESIDENTS LASH OUT AT GOVERNMENTAt the same time, while emergency services have encouraged those who have lost their homes not to rebuild in the same place, some Alexandra residents who have been left homeless following the flash floods have blamed the government for their misfortune. They say government has never delivered on its promises for alternative housing.They say they have been forced to live in low lying areas, along the Jukskei River for years and it s not the first time they have experienced such a disaster.Residents say they are tired of state visits, accompanied by free blankets, every time they lose their homes.One man says all the government wants is their votes. This is a disaster area, but they don t do anything. They promise housing, and the next thing they want is a vote from us. WATCH: Alexandra picks up pieces after flood damage(Edited by Masechaba Sefularo)