The party has welcomed the findings of former Public Protector Advocate Thuli Madonsela. JOHANNESBURG - The African National Congress (ANC) has now formally responded to the State of Capture report.In a statement released on Thursday, the party says it welcomed the findings of former Public Protector Advocate Thuli Madonsela into claims of improper and unethical conduct by President Zuma.The ANC says as a result of Madonsela s investigation, South Africans now have greater clarity of what it calls concerning relationships that those in government and state-owned enterprises must be wary of.ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa says the party's government officials must be wary of relationships they build. They must worry about the political proximity and the intersections between business and leadership, particularly our cadres employed in positions of power in government and those who run state-owned companies. He says the party has long considered allegations of state capture as &quot;an attack on South Africa s democratic architecture&quot;.FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTIONThe ANC says it s pleased with the level of activism that South Africans have displayed in the fight against corruption. We trust that the same vigour and commitment will be harnessed and directed to the very important project of fundamental socio-economic transformation, deracialising our economy and the creation of a justice and equitable society which needs all of us, including captains of industry, to pull towards. However, the party says the fight against corruption is not a fight against government. The fight against corruption is not a fight against government; it requires all stakeholders - particularly business - to commit to ending the vicious cycle by also acting decisively against it in their own ranks. The party has called on all ANC members to fight corruption and the abuse of state power in any form. We further call on all leaders and structures of the ANC to remain vigilant against interests that would seek to use proximity to the ANC and its deployed cadres for the pursuit of selfish interests. The party s spokesperson says they aim to uphold the movement s values. Ours is to continue to uphold the values of a revolutionary movement, deliver on our commitment to serve and never betray or undermine the trust of our people. Read the Public Protector's full 'State of Capture' report below: State Capture Report 2016 by Primedia Broadcasting on Scribd(Edited by Shimoney Regter)