Gauteng chairperson Paul Mashatile says they don&#8217;t understand why President Zuma took the route in the first place. PRETORIA - African National Congress (ANC) Gauteng chairperson Paul Mashatile says the provincial leadership welcomes the fact that Jacob Zuma has abandoned his attempt to halt the release of the state capture report but says they don t understand why the he took the route in the first place.Mashatile is speaking at the Save South Africa campaign at the St. Albans Cathedral in Pretoria where hundreds of prominent people, including ANC stalwarts and business leaders, have gathered.He says the provincial ANC supports the fight against corruption and state capture.Mashatile also had words of advice for National Prosecuting Authority head Shaun Abrahams. I think it would be important to remind the NPA head Shaun Abrahams that this time when he makes a decision to charge, he will make sure that he has a winnable case. You can t take a decision and later on say: Eish, I m not sure what I was doing. Barclays Africa CEO Maria Ramos also spoke at the venue earlier today. This is not about business becoming involved in politics, it s about us becoming involved in defending the very essence of our democracy and the institutions that make up that democracy. DIRTY HANDSThere are growing calls for President Jacob Zuma and other ANC top leaders to step down with former Constitutional Court justice Zak Yacoob saying their hands are dirty . Yacoob has this morning joined hundreds of people at the St Albans Cathedral in Pretoria.Those in attendance also include ANC stalwarts, religious leaders and high profile business people. The former Constitutional Court justice and anti-apartheid activist did not mince his words. He says removing President Zuma from office is the start to restoring the integrity of the country, accusing him of being dirty handed . He also says the entire ANC NEC needs to step down if the country s to see any real changes.Yacoob was joined by other prominent South Africans including ANC stalwart Barbara Hogan, Paul Mashatile and Bantu Holomisa at the people's assembly.ZUMA, ABRAHAMS MUST STEP DOWNEconomic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema says they want Zuma and National Prosecuting Authority head Shawn Abrahams to resign with immediate effect - today.Malema was addressing thousands of EFF supporters gathered on Church Square this morning.He says apart from their demand for President Zuma and Abrahams to resign, they are also there to call for free education.Malema has now told his supporters to occupy every street in Pretoria and reconvene again there at 1pm. Every busy street in Tshwane must be occupied, that s where you go and please come back here at 1pm. Occupy Tshwane, it belongs to you. He says if the President doesn't heed to their demands, they won t go anywhere. ZUMA FORGOT MANDELA S DREAMMeanwhile, Democratic Alliance (DA) Leader Mmusi Maimane says Zuma has forgotten about the dream of former president Nelson Mandela and says he doesn t deserve to lead the country.Maimane was addressing supporters just a few meters away from the Pretoria Magistrates Court where Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan was meant to appear today on fraud charges before they were dropped. Maimane says the time has come for Zuma to step down. The man who has destroyed the legacy of president Nelson Mandela, who has distanced himself from the people of this country - that man is none other than Jacob Gedleyihlekisa Zuma. 