Donald Trump swept to a surprising win and will become the 45th president of the United States of America. CAPE TOWN/JOHANNESBURG/NEW YORK - As the world comes to terms with news of Donald Trump's election as United States president, President Jacob Zuma has congratulated the property billionaire, saying he looks forward to working with him to build on the strong relations that exists between the two countries.Trump swept to a surprising win and will become the 45th president of the United States of America.He will be entering the White House with Republicans in control of the Senate and the House of Representatives in January.Zuma says South Africa is looking forward to working closely with the new administration in the United States.International Relations spokesperson Clayson Monyela says: We look forward to enhance the already strong relations between the United States of America and South Africa. Meanwhile, Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi was the first international leader to call Trump to congratulate him on his win.British Prime Minister Theresa May has also congratulated Trump and says Britain will remain a strong and close partner on trade, security and defence with the US.Russian President Vladimir Putin says he hopes his country can form better relations with the US, now that Trump is in power. The text of Donald Trump&#39;s victory speech in full: https://t.co/FI5f0c15K8 pic.twitter.com/mkDy2kqKXHOPPOSITION PARTIES REACTOpposition parties say it s a sad day in history, while some local analysts say that the American public's decision will have profound and negative consequences for South Africa.Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Mmusi Maimane has described the developments as a sad day for the world at large. It s a deeply sad day but it s part of the democratic project. The challenge for the world now is what values society wants to elect their leaders on. The Economic Freedom Fighters Mbuyiseni Ndlozi says Trump s win could affect international relations. This means that we re going to go back to an era where it s about America first. At the same time, Wits University Professor John Stremlau says consequences of Trump s election will be dire for the continent. His general approach to America s power in the world is very different from any president in modern history. He will challenge the alliance system. In Europe he says he will question the trade regime. It will have a profound impact on the economics of Africa and South Africa in particular. CLINTON SUPPORTERSSurvey polls had predicted that Hillary Clinton had an edge over Trump but when he took the lead, the disbelief sent ripples through the Java Center where thousands of Clinton s supporters had gathered.Ultimately, the hopes of Clinton s supporters were dashed, leaving many questioning how the polls could be so wrong .(Edited by Shimoney Regter)