Cosatu's Sizwe Pamla said they find it impossible to try and raise their concerns with the African National Congress. JOHANNESBURG The Congress of South African Union (Cosatu) says if the African National Congress (ANC) doesn t start to work properly for workers and change course it will be on a collision course with the federation.Yesterday, the trade union federation said the ruling party was showing arrogance and disdain for workers and that it understood the frustration of its members and National Education Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) s position in calling on President Jacob Zuma to resign.Cosatu s Sizwe Pamla says the ANC cannot continue to treat its members with disdain. From where we re at the moment considering the anger from our affiliates, the anger from our members and the level of frustration, the members are very much clear now. Labour analyst Gavin Brown says this is clearly a reflection of real frustration. Clearly Cosatu must be getting pressure from its members and its branches and from its affiliates, expressing their distaste of what s going on and questioning the continuation of the alliance. Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini is currently seen as supporting Zuma, while it s claimed other unions may join Nehawu in calling on him to resign.UNDERSTANDS NEHAWU S POSITIONCosatu also says it understands Nehawu s position after the union said this week it was calling on Zuma to resign for the good of the ANC and of the country. Nehawu was the first formation within the alliance to call for Zuma to go.Pamla said they find it impossible to try and raise their concerns with the ANC. We meet a wall of arrogance and a level of indifference that is shocking for us as a reliable ally of the ANC, so we are saying the ANC should tread carefully. And he said they do understand why Nehawu has called on President Zuma to resign. We actually understood Nehawu s position because we ve been engaging at all levels with the ANC to try and find a solution to some of their organisational problems but this goes beyond that. Cosatu also said that people in government and President Zuma should stop going to court all the time when it's clear they re going to lose.In a statement, Cosatu said: It supports the sentiments and suggestions that all those who are wasting taxpayers money in frivolous legal challenges, should be made to pay it back from their own pockets.The trade union federation also took a swipe at legal advisers it claims give unsound legal advice. They should be removed from the state payroll and public representatives who want to defend themselves from allegations of corruption and impropriety should pay from their own pockets. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)