Out of the night that covers me,Black as the Pit from pole to pole,I thank whatever gods may beFor my unconquerable soul.In the fell clutch of circumstanceI have not winced nor cried aloud.Under the bludgeonings of chanceMy head is bloody, but unbowed.Beyond this place of wrath and tearsLooms but the Horror of the shade,And yet the menace of the yearsFinds, and shall find, me unafraid.It matters not how strait the gate,How charged with punishments the scroll.I am the master of my fate:I am the captain of my soul.- Invictus by William Ernest HenleyThe much-anticipated state capture report was finally released last week and for the first time laid bare the extent of capture and cronyism in the state and the extent of the state s patronage machine post-1994 democracy.The report paints the confluence of many tragedies: a politically connected family that played a key role in the appointment of Cabinet ministers; a power utility that broke the law and a president that may have violated the ethics code, who was previously found by the highest court in the land to have failed to uphold the Constitution.The political turmoil in which we find ourselves has heightened concerns and fears in many corners which has resulted in the mobilisation of campaigns and calls to action, galvanising many ANC stalwarts, civil society and opposition parties to try to save this country.This precarious situation we find ourselves in reminds me of William Ernest Henley s poem which he wrote at a very difficult time in his life during the Victorian era: Invictus, which is Latin for unconquerable/undefeated. This is a poem about the human spirit and how it acts in difficult circumstances. Henley spent some time in hospital because of tuberculosis and had his leg amputated. This was a period he described as a dark time. And so he wrote a series of hospital poems chronicling those dark moments and one of these famous poems is Invictus.The lines of the poem would inspire many politicians and struggle heroes. Invictus would be one of Nelson Mandela s favourite poems that had inspired him and got him through the 27 years in prison. For Mandela would find himself in the most demeaning and deplorable of conditions while incarcerated. Over and above this, his mom and son died while in prison, and he could attend neither funerals. His time in prison was punctuated by moments when he lost courage and felt like giving up. In these moments he would recite the poem and it was all he needed to keep him going. A film would come to be named after the poem.Burmese opposition leader and Nobel Peace laureate, Aung San Suu Kyi speaks of how she too turned to the poem for strength when she was incarcerated, as her father also drew hope from the poem during the independence struggle of their time. She would say that the poem is about the struggle and suffering, of the bloody unbowed head, and even death, all for the sake of freedom .After all, the poem is about conquering fear and keeping hope alive. In modern times, it is used in the context of sport, iterating combat and battle, a poem for the injured and wounded, its message meant to provide succour and relief in times of despair.We can all learn from Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, who has endured a political witch-hunt and political adversaries that had indeed left him bloodied but unbowed . As we saw in his recent speeches and the mini-budget, he was preserved by the art of self-mastery.Right now we are witnessing a confluence of many presences that any soul can endure. The harrowing and distressing headlines since the Nkandla debacle, such as the abuse of state institutions, court cases dropped and undropped, the undermining of constitutional bodies, plans to withdraw from the ICC, the extent of the patronage machine, the lack of ethical leadership, failure of good governance, have left us feeling like we are in Henley s black pit.Look no further than the comments on social media and the listeners calling various radio stations. We have reached a point where we no longer know how or what to feel. Similar to the poem, we feel like we are in that moment of wrath and tears, living in the times of horror of the shade. These events have left the human spirit battered and wounded.While the poem in itself is not political, it should be read as an expression of political aspiration and hope. For Mandela and what the film of the same name tried to achieve was to depict the ability and willingness to negotiate all that was needed to allow South Africa to survive apartheid without degenerating into a civil war. It was the tenacity and determination of the human spirit of our struggle heroes and many South Africans who were in that dark pit. For many South Africans, the disintegration of apartheid meant surviving life-changing injuries not visible to the eye. We conquered apartheid and the film would symbolise reconciliation, forgiveness, unity, pioneerism and the victory that built a nation.While the calls for President Zuma to step down have amplified, though to seemingly deaf ears, we are now at the juncture of our history where we need to take matters into our own hands. The ruling party understands that campaigns and voting yield no change, for if they did, to borrow from Emma Goldman, they would have made them illegal.This is a moment where we all need to individually or collectively decide what future we want for this country, what is our political project, dreams and aspirations, and how much we are willing to give, and the willpower to follow through.In the film, Morgan Freeman (depicting Mandela) asks Matt Damon (playing former Springbok captain Francois Pienaar): What is your philosophy of leadership ? And as we grapple with what true leadership is, with the ambition of the nation s future, its chance for success hanging in the balance, we can no longer afford to sit back and be the keyboard warriors and let others do the fighting on our behalf. We are the masters of our own fate. We need to ultimately decide whether we will pick up arms and fight, though not in militant terms.While many believe that this is the beginning of the end, and the end may seem further, we need to remember that, What we call the beginning is often the end. And to make an end is to make a beginning. The end is where we start from - TS Eliot. The journey may be like going down a black bit, filled with wrath and tears. It does not matter whether the gate is straight, Invictus reminds us that we are the captains of this ship with the resolve to survive the calamity bestowed upon us and come out victorious.Regardless what life gives us, we must remember, I am the master of my fate . We need that Invictus moment. And like Invictus we need to show that our human spirit is unconquered.Andiswa Makanda is a content producer for the John Robbie Show on 702 for which she won a 2015 MTN Radio Awards. She is currently doing her MA in Media Studies at Wits University.