Nieto was criticised for receiving Donald Trump in Mexico after he called Mexican immigrants rapists and vowed to build a wall between the two countries. JOHANNESBURG/NEW YORK Mexico s President Pena Nieto has reacted for the first time to the news that Donald Trump is America s 45th president.The Mexican leader says he s ready to work with Trump to help bilateral relations and that the two countries will continue to tighten bonds of cooperation and mutual respect. Nieto was heavily criticised for receiving Trump in Mexico during the campaign after the Republican candidate called Mexican immigrants rapists and vowed to build a wall between the two countries. Many Mexicans living in America are concerned about how they will be treated now that Trump is president.Trump created heated debates across the globe when he vowed to build a wall between the US and Mexico and proposed a blanket ban on Muslims entering the country.But as soon as news broke of his victory, Trump made a point of saying he ll be a president for all Americans. I pledge to every citizen of our land that I will be president for all Americans and this is so important to me. For those who have chosen not to support me in the past, of which there were a few people, I m reaching out to you for your guidance and help so that we can work together and we can unify our great country. His campaign manager and the chief strategist for the Republicans aren t saying much about these statements, saying the victory is fresh and there's time to work on a plan and to work on regaining the trust of Americans.Correspondent at the Washington Post Ryan Lizza says undocumented immigrants and Muslims are likely to have a tough time under Trump s presidency. If you are an undocumented immigrant in this country, Trump has promised to deport you, even if you re a child who was brought here by parents. If you are thinking about coming to this country as a Muslim, Trump has said that he s not going to allow you in the country. MARKETS REACTWith the US markets opening shortly, analysts in America say investors are likely to be spooked by the unpredictable nature of new president-elect.Hillary Clinton is also expected to give a concession speech later, who will be followed by outgoing President Barack Obama.Obama has invited Trump to the White House tomorrow to discuss the transition plan.CNN business correspondent Alison Kosik says jittery markets after an election is not an uncommon phenomenon. As far as investors go, the way investors think is that Trump up-ended the landscape where there is a lot of question marks going forward. One analyst said expect a lot of monster swings between today and inauguration day as we wait to hear more form Trump as to where he stands on policies. It doesn t matter who would have won the election, history shows that there is often a sell-off the day after presidential election. Analysts are keeping a close eye on US markets which open soon following Donald Trump's US Presidential victory.Experts fear global markets could still face a knee-jerk reaction to the news despite stabilising following the initial announcement.Markets started to tumble as Trump pulled ahead in the race to the White House during the early hours of this morning.The rand also rapidly lost some ground but has since stabilised.Meanwhile, Americans are waking up to a new reality.In New York City, a stronghold of democrats, there's a sense of despondency, disbelief and sadness.Many are now turning to explanations of how this happened; how Trump was able to amass the votes needed, how the polls had got it so wrong in predicting a Clinton edge, and asking, where to from here. Some say they will seek plans to leave the country, others are trying to urge their fellow citizens not to flee, but to stay and fight the so-called good fight against all that Trump has shown he stands for - racism, sexism and tyranny. Clinton is due to speak in midtown Manhattan expected to address her millions of supporters, for the first time since she made the call to Trump conceding victory to him.