The premier says the provincial government aims to assist those impacted by the heavy rain. JOHANNESBURG - Gauteng Premier David Makhura intends declaring some parts of the province disaster areas following the recent flash floods which have left at least 6 people.Makhura visited the Ulana informal settlement on the East Rand on Friday after days of heavy rain left hundreds displaced.The premier says the provincial government is taking steps to declare a disaster in order to access resources to assist those impacted by the heavy rain.Premier Makhura is visiting communities in Ulana, Delmore who were affected by #flashfloods in Ekurhuleni pic.twitter.com/Pi7RAcj2gvPremier on walkabouts in the Ulana area earlier #flashfloods pic.twitter.com/SwanfaUwoYSEARCH FOR MISSING CHILD SUSPENDEDWith more thunderstorms expected later on Friday afternoon, and the possibility of flooding in low lying areas, Johannesburg Emergency Services have suspended the search for the three-year-old girl who was swept away on Wednesday. Little Everlate Chauke disappeared from her family's Alexandra shack as her relatives clung to tree branches for safety. Emergency services say they ve already scoured 30 kilometres of the Jukskei River, with no sign of the child. The Chauke family has pleaded with government to find the child.Emergency services spokesperson Nana Radebe We ve suspended the search for now, but we re going to resume on Saturday morning. Premier interacting with residents and councillors as he leaves. He has urged residents to cooperate &amp; work together #flashfloods pic.twitter.com/8W0krHGaAB#GPstorms The toddler&#39;s father says he jumped into the flood waters to save her but the torrent was too strong and his child was swept awayMeanwhile, ER24 says it did not issue a WhatsApp voice note about a severe storm warning, that s currently doing the rounds on social media.The emergency service says it doesn't know who the person behind the voice note is, but it s investigating. The voice note instructs people to get home and move to higher ground.ER24's Russel Mering says it s a hoax: Please take note that ER24 did not issue any WhatsApp voice note regarding the storm warning. The voice note was not issued by an official channel to ER24 and the official warning can only be issued by the South African Weather Service. WET WEEKEND FORECAST FOR GAUTENGThe South African Weather Service says contrary to an audio clip doing the rounds on social media, there are no severe thunder storms over Gauteng at the moment. It says showers are moving over the province with an anticipated break in the early afternoon.However more storms are expected later on, along with an alert for severe thunderstorms and possible flash floods. The SA Weather Service says it expects the rains to continue well into the weekend.Spokesperson Edwin Thema says, There s are more storms expected later in the afternoon, then we have a watch out for severe thunderstorms. In these thunder storms we can expect heavy rainfall, hail, flash flooding and damaging winds. LISTEN: How you can help flash flood victims in Gauteng(Edited by Zamangwane Shange)