The 52-year-old actor looked noticeably thinner as he smiled and posed for pictures at a private screening. JOHANNESBURG - Brad Pitt made his first public appearance since splitting from Angelina Jolie at a private screening for Moonlight in Los Angeles on Tuesday. The 52-year-old actor looked noticeably thinner as he smiled and posed for pictures with his friend and Ocean's Eleven co-star Julia Roberts at a private screening for upcoming movie Moonlight - which is produced by Brad's Plan B company - in Los Angeles on Tuesday. The Fight Club star donned a plaid shirt, jacket and jeans for the screening, at which his appearance was unannounced. Brad - who has children Maddox, 15, Pax, 12, Zahara, 11, Shiloh, 10, and twins Knox and Vivienne, eight, with Angelina - is expected to walk the red carpet at the premiere of his new movie Allied in California on Wednesday. And talk show host Wendy Williams has given him some advice to minimise the impact of his appearance on his bitter custody battle. She advised him to briefly praise his kids and only give red carpet interviews to Nancy O'Dell from Entertainment Tonight and Extra correspondent Mario Lopez. She said: "Brad, here's what you should know. We know you're not going to be walking with Angelina because you guys are divorcing. "We know you're not going to be walking with your children, because depending on what you read, some of them might not like you so much. And the others are adjusting and it will take them time. "You shouldn't walk with your co-star [Marion Cotillard]. That French lady who is pregnant. Who a lot of people who accused you of having an affair with in the beginning. "Anyway, the point is that winning an Oscar - Brad - only talk to Nancy O'Dell or Mario Lopez and I'm going to tell you why. "Because Mario Lopez is so politically correct. He is perfection Ken Doll personified and he will not offend you, so you stop for him on the red carpet and Nancy O'Dell. And then keep it walking. "And when you get on the stage, Brad, you keep your speech really short. Don't talk about politics or human rights. You dedicate your entire thing to your children. "Here's how you do that. You list each child and one word that describes them, lovely."