South Africa Weather Service&#8217;s Jan Vermeulen says the weather will soon clear up. JOHANNESBURG The South African Weather Service says Gauteng residents can expect less wet weather from today into the next week.Heavy floods rocked parts of the province this week causing damage to property and the death of at least seven people.Yesterday morning police discovered the body of a missing pregnant woman who was swept away by floods in Alexandra on Wednesday while in her vehicle. SA Weather Service s Jan Vermeulen says the weather will soon clear up. We see that the system is now moving east and there s only 30% of showers and thunder showers, but excluding southwestern parts we don t expect anything. So tomorrow also there s no alert for thunderstorms. Meanwhile, police have urged people who may have missing relatives following the flash floods in Gauteng to contact the South Africa Police Service as search and rescue operations continueThe police s Kay Makhubela says her car was found the day before while her body was found on the N3 along the Jukskei River. Police divers as well as rescue team managed to recover the body. We ve opened a case and are still continuing with our investigation. He has urged members of the community to report any missing persons who may have been swept by the heavy rains this week. We re also appealing to the people who are residing next to the rivers and who are seeing waters when it s raining to avoid past the water because it might overpower them. DEPARTMENT HOPES FOR MORE RAINS FOR VAAL DAMThe Department of Water and Sanitation says its hoping for more rain so water levels can increased at the Vaal Dam.Only a slight 0.4 percent increase has been recorded at the dam, amid heavy rains which resulted in flash floods in Johannesburg and surrounding areas earlier this week.The Vaal Dam mainly services Gauteng residents.Departmental spokesperson Sputnik Ratau said Johannesburg is not yet out of the woods when taking the dam level into consideration. Our ideal is that the dam should be at about 50 to 60 percent at this time of the year, moving towards the rainy season. In early November Johannesburg Water said it has decided to keep restrictions at level 2 because continuous supply minimizes burst pipes.The Ekhurleni and Tshwane municipalities have escalated rationing in their regions, cutting off water between 9pm in the evening and 5am.The Water and Sanitation Department has announced that water will be released from the Sterkfontein Dam into the Vaal River system which supplies the province s metros.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)