It&#8217;s unclear whether the increase in unemployment will be a step towards a rating downgrade. PRETORIA Economists say rating agencies will look closely at South Africa s latest unemployment figures and its inability to address the problem but it s unclear whether the increase in unemployment will be a step towards a rating downgrade. Statistics South Africa (Stats SA) released the third quarter labour force survey in Pretoria on Tuesday, which showed unemployment increased to 27.1%. Moody s is expected to release its credit rating review on Friday, while Standard and Poor s will announce its review next Friday. Economist Thabi Leoka says the concern for the rating agencies will be the underlying reasons why government is unable to address unemployment, which has remained stubbornly stable at around 25% since 2009. They will be worried about the increase in the unemployment rate and the fact that we actually have not been able to reduce this unemployment rate. Investment Solutions Lesiba Mothata says these figures would have come as no surprise. I think rating agencies would have been expecting something like that here and will continue to talk about a need for structural reform to unlock potential of the economy to grow faster. The current unemployment rate is the highest it s been since 2003. Stats SA says while employment grew by 288,000 jobs, this was offset by the increase in the number of people looking for work by 239,000.Statistician General Pali Lehohla has explained the reason for the growth in the number of people looking for work. Simultaneously, as we look at an increasing unemployment number of 27.1%, there s also an increase in the number of people who have been employed. The point is when people see that there s employment, their job search behaviour changes, they start searching. 'JOB GROWTH IS SIMPLY NOT TAKING PLACE'Labour analysts say Tuesday s unemployment figures show that job growth is simply not taking place and government needs to reassess the situation.Independent analyst Gavin Brown says the increase in joblessness isn't a surprise. Most observers would be very skeptical of that figure and very much interested in the expand rate of unemployment. Bearing in mind there s no job growth and the fact that we have thousands of matriculants every year entering the job market, it s not a pretty sight and I don t think it s anything more than confirmation of what we re already well aware of. Labour lawyer Michael Bagraim says the figures released won't have a major impact on the economy for now. I don t think it means all that much, it s a very small increase and the increase itself is not going to make a dent at all when we ve got almost 40% of the South African workforce out of a job. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)