Thousands have gathered in Pretoria this morning ahead of a march against state capture. PRETORIA The Save South Africa campaign says recalling President Jacob Zuma will not change the state of the country because there are deeper rooted issues. Civil society groups, business, labour and religious leaders have gathered in Pretoria this morning ahead of a march against state capture. Amongst those in attendance are AngloGold Ashanti chairperson Sipho Pityana - who's been highly critical of Zuma, African National Congress veteran Cheryl Caroulos and Rabbi Goldstein. The rabbi says the group s main call is for institutional corruption to end and for good governance to prevail. Indeed South Africa is on the cross roads; there is a titanic struggle taking place between the forces of good and the forces of evil and between forces of corruption and state capture and forces of decency and ethics. At the same time, there s a strong police presence around Church Square this morning as Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) members gather ahead of their march in the Pretoria CBD.Party leader Julius Malema is expected to lead the March.Yesterday the red berets held a night vigil in the capital, with members saying that enough is enough. Enough is enough. Zuma must fall and Fees Must Fall. Another EFF supporter said: It s gotten to a point whereby we feel this country is going to a banana republic. So unless we stand and do something right now, we feel like nothing is going to be done and our country is going to shreds. EFF members continue to arrive in Pretoria in their numbers ahead of the march later this morning. Some members are having something to eat while others are selling the party s merchandise.Party members will march from Church Square to the Pretoria Magistrates Court where the state capture case will be heard.The entire area has been cordoned off, with access limited to very few people.Police armoured vehicles are also patrolling the streets, while emergency services vehicles and ambulances have been deployed to several intersections.The march was originally scheduled to coincide with finance minister Pravin Gordhan s first court appearance on fraud charges today but party leaders say despite the charges against the minister being dropped, the march will continue.Leaders say this action was never about the case but about the immediate resignation of Shaun Abrahams and President Zuma.Meanwhile, the Democratic Alliance will also hold its own demonstration this morningThe party's Mabine Seabe has called on South Africans to come out in their numbers to protect the state and the country's Constitution. The unwillingness of Zuma to uphold the oath of office and the Constitution, so we will be taking it to the streets of Tshwane today with South Africans to ensure that we have a democracy that flourishes and that we stick to the rule of the constitution and the rule of law. President Zuma s application is scheduled to start at about 10am this morning.