Wits Vice-Chancellor Adam Habib says he appointed researcher &amp; gender activist Nomboniso Gasa to investigate the matter. JOHANNESBURG Wits University Vice-Chancellor Adam Habib says a statement will be released this week on how the institution handled the alleged rape of a student at one of its residences.Habib says he appointed researcher and gender activist Nomboniso Gasa to investigate the matter within the next three days. Management at the Junction Residence have been accused of failing to take action after a female student was raped, allegedly by another student who stays in the same building.The rape survivor tried to take her own life due to the trauma she suffered.Habib says he will reveal the findings of the investigation. So probably on Wednesday afternoon they'll come to me, I ll need some time to read, then I ll release a statement about what her findings are and what are her recommendations and what I ve decided. Gasa says she has committed herself to being independent, ethical, sensitive and inclusive in her investigation into rape allegations at Wits.Last week, students took to social media to express their dissatisfaction with the institution's handling of the rape.Gasa says she is committed to exploring all sides of the case by speaking to all parties. The success of the investigation depends on how it s handled. It also depends on how different members of the university community feel on whether they ve been heard. STUDENT GRATEFUL FOR SUPPORTAt the same time, Habib has said the student who was raped is grateful for the outpouring public support she s received.However, the Wits Vice-Chancellor says the survivor feels emotionally overwhelmed at having her ordeal scrutinised.Habib is now calling on people to handle the situation with the utmost care on social media. I call on people to engage in this issue with the interest of people in mind; understand that there s someone who s been through enormous trauma and that you need to deal with it sensitively. It s not simply the media, it is those that engage in social media. Tempers flared after the rape survivor tried to take her own life due to the trauma she had suffered.A group of students tried to evict the alleged rapist themselves last week, but claim management protected him.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)