Molefe says he&#8217;s leaving Eskom in the interests of good governance and that it is in the interests of Eskom. JOHANNESBURG Eskom CEO Brian Molefe says he is seeking legal advice on what action he can take regarding the findings by the Public Protector s state of capture report Molefe on Friday announced he s resigning as Eskom CEO because it s in the interests of the public and the parastatal but that he is not admitting to any wrong-doing by stepping down.The report found that Molefe s conduct may have been designed to help the Gupta family buy the optimum coal mine by trying to drive the mine into financial distress and then giving the family a huge pre-payment for coal.Molefe says he s leaving Eskom in the interests of good governance and that it is in the interests of Eskom and the public for him to do so.Energy expert Chris Yellend says Eskom now needs a new CEO. I ve a feeling that this person will not come from within Eskom but will be somebody external that is hopefully not tainted by what we ve seen comeing in the Public Protector s report. Eskom s board has also denied any wrong-doing and last week strongly defended Molefe.Eskom chair Ben Ngubane says it s accepting his resignation with a great sense of loss.GREAT LOSS TO SAPublic Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane has told Eyewitness News that people should not start accusing those implicated in the state of capture report of being guilty until the matter goes through a judicial process.Mkhwebane was speaking on the sidelines of the University of Limpopo student trust fund dinner at the Gallagher Convention Centre Friday evening.She says it s a great loss for the public sector to have someone of Molefe s calibre leave its ranks.Mkhwebane has, however, urged those that people seek judicial review and not make haste judgments on those implicate in the report. All I can say is that people can lodge judicial review if they re not happy about the outcome of the report. So that s the most important thing which I would say to people I don t think it s justifiable for us or for people to start criticising or start thinking that people are guilty. Mkhwebane says she hopes he will be able to serve in other structures. I mean honestly it s a loss for the country. Yesterday, Molefe announced his resignation from the power utility effective from 1 January next year.MOLEFE S RESIGNATION REGRATTABLENgubane said the decision by Molefe to resign as the parastatal s CEO from January is regrettable but understandable.Yellend said this resignation could be just the start as the full judicial inquiry into claims of state capture is still to come. I do think that there s going to be a lot of dirty washing, a lot of new facts coming out. We ve not seen half of it in my opinion. But Eskom s board says it wants to thank Molefe for his dedication to turning the utility around and putting it on a sound growth trajectory.Molefe says that he is going to dedicate himself showing that he is the victim of injustice because the Public Protector s observations were published after an incomplete investigation.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)