Gauteng&#8217;s Department of Economic Development officially launched the eKasiLab Soweto facility at the Soweto Empowerment Zone in Diepkloof. JOHANNESBURG In an effort to support emerging entrepreneurs, the eKasiLab will expand opportunities to startups in the ICT s and advance manufacturing, green economy, bio-sciences and creatives in Soweto, through its incubation centers. Gauteng s Department of Economic Development as well as The Innovation Hub have officially launched the eKasiLab Soweto facility at the Soweto Empowerment Zone in Diepkloof.And it&#39;s official! The @ekasilabsoweto is open for entrepreneurs in the area to maximize their businesses @InnovHub @GautengDED @TheGGDA pic.twitter.com/pYOjLJh3WIExplaining the concept McLean Sibanda says: These labs are co-creation innovation centers that we are putting in the townships to be able to take innovation to our people and to provide opportunities for the youth in the townships to start to develop their business ideas further and really bring to light the strategy of the township economy revitalisation. He adds: &quot;They provide office spaces, a business address for young people, but we also have facilities that have machinery where there is labour cutters and digital printers for people to do prototyping for their business as well. The first installment was established in Ga- Rankuwa in partnership with the City of Tshwane, as well as Alexandra. As part of the programme, a group of 25 software developing students will soon be graduating and launching their businesses at the end of the year-long course. Speaking on the significance of this Sibanda says: &quot;If you look at the high unemployment rate in the country, it is quite clear to all of us that large companies are not going to create all the employment that is required. The department of e-government is providing high speed connectivity to all these eKasi labs and that is quite critical for young people to be connected and make sure that their business also go digital He says innovation is no longer a choice. If you look at the future economies and the future industries in terms of the fourth industrial revolution, they are going to be digital. We need to stay ahead of the curve and therefore we are going to be focused on instilling a culture of innovation in the townships by working with youth and higher institutions of learning. The programme has already assisted over 40 entrepreneurs.By the end of March the innovation hubs will be in seven townships in Gauteng.A roll out of the project is expected in the Vaal, Sebokeng, Mohlakeng, Tembisa and Mamelodi by early next year.