NPA head Shaun Abrahams says there is a narrative that the decision to charge Pravin Gordhan was a political one. JOHANNESBURG - National prosecutions head Shaun Abrahams has told Eyewitness News he doesn t involve himself in politics and he will not allow the organisation to be pulled into a political quagmire. In an exclusive interview, Abrahams says he is not politically captured and he s demonstrated his independence by withdrawing criminal charges against Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. The U-turn has sparked strong criticism with many calling for his head.The NDPP says there is a narrative in the public domain that the decision to charge Gordhan was a political one.But he insists he is not playing politics. I m not politically captured; I m not captured by anyone. WATCH: Shaun Abrahams: I am not politically capturedAnd he doesn't want the National Prosecuting Authority to be pulled into dirty politics either. We find ourselves in a massive political quagmire and many are trying to pull the NPA into this and I m trying to do my level best to pull he NPA out of it. Abrahams says he also did not succumb to public pressure when deciding to withdraw charges against the finance minister.BLAME GAMEThe NPA head says that he did not throw his mentor and colleague Dr Torie Pretorius under the bus in his decision to withdraw charges against Gordhan. Abrahams acknowledges that Pretorius is his mentor and the two have a longstanding relationship. He insists he did not intend to lay the blame for the shambolic case against Gordhan with Pretorius. I would neer throw Pretorius under the bus, he is a gentleman in all respects. He has a brilliant legal mind and yes he was my mentor. Abrahams says he has reviewed dozens of decisions made by directors and this one was no different I have all the confidence in Pretorius and I would never throw him under the bus under any circumstances. But the NDPP still won't apologise for the debacle or say whether he was embarrassed by it. WATCH: Shaun Abrahams: I did not throw Torie Pretorius under the busFIT AND PROPERAbrahams has told EWN he is more than fit and proper to do his job and his successes as a prosecutor prove his competence. His traits as a fiery prosecutor come to the fore as he gives an assurance that he is fit and proper to hold office. I m more than fit and proper to hold this position and I m more than fit and proper to be a member of the advocates profession. WATCH: Shaun Abrahams: I am more than fit and proper to hold this positionHe is aware of moves by the EFF and Dr Mathews Phosa to have him disbarred but believes these are motivated by politics. As far as competency is concerned, my career speaks for itself and certainly nobody as incompetent can achieve what I ve achieved in my career. Abrahams insists he will not resign but admits there are some things that could have been done better.WATCH: Shaun Abrahams in the wake of the Gordhan charges(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)