The EFF leader reacted to the state capture report while addressing supporters outside the Union Buildings. JOHANNESBURG - Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema says the EFF will make sure those implicated in wrongdoing in the state capture report face the full might of the law.Malema reacted to the report while addressing supporters outside the Union Buildings, where marchers were demanding that President Jacob Zuma resign.Earlier, police used stun grenades and rubber bullets to disperse supporters who wanted to force their way into the Union Buildings.#StateCapture These are the individuals who were found to have been implicated by the PP&#39;s investigation. pic.twitter.com/GARN0buFhgMalema says they have welcomed Thuli Madonsela's recommendation that there be a commission of inquiry into state capture by an independent judge to be recommended by the chief justice.He says the EFF will ensure those mentioned in the report account for their actions. She makes points about Des van Rooyen, Mosebenzi Zwane and Eskom that the evidence she came across is a very worrying evidence. #StateCapture Ajay Gupta confirmed to PP that he is &#39;very good friends&#39; with Eskom CEO Brian Molefe. pic.twitter.com/Cw2t7UR3EXLISTEN: Thuli Madonsela on the 'State of Capture' report#StateCapture The phone records that expose Eskom CEO Brian Molefe&#39;s many visits and calls with the Guptas. pic.twitter.com/hE9GEmyWDbMalema says the report points out that the Guptas knew that former finance minister Nhlanhla Nene would be axed and says President Zuma told them and has violated the code of ethics by doing so. It means someone told them and that means that person violated the code of ethics and there s one person who must know whether Nene is going or not, and that s makhandakhanda The party says it wants the commission of inquiry to be fully resourced and follow up thoroughly on the evidence from Madonsela's report.Meanwhile, Malema says they are considering presenting a motion of impeachment of President Zuma in Parliament, saying the process on dealing with the state capture report from now requires a clean president.Malema says while they appreciate Madonsela's report that there be a commission of inquiry, that commission must be fully independent and resourced. The commission must have its own staff, its own money and must finish its job within particular days. The report must go back to the president and the presidency must announce the findings within 14 days. But he says Zuma can't preside over this process. We are considering to present a motion on impeachment in Parliament, because all this requires a clean president. You can t say the same crook you re investigating must be the one that appoints the people who re going to investigate him. He says the president must resign now to avoid taking the country further down.(Edited by Zamangwane Shange)