How did the mentioned entities manage to attain clean audits? JOHANNESBURG Gauteng recorded the second highest proportion of municipalities which received clean opinions during the 2014-2015 Auditor-General of South Africa's (AGSA) municipal audits.Thirty-three percent of the province's municipalities received unqualified audit opinions with no findings, compared to 73% in the Western Cape and 30% in KwaZulu-Natal.The Auditor-General commended the leadership in these provinces for having proved the value of investing in strengthening internal control, valuing stability in the administration of municipalities and taking decisive action on both internal control failings and audit findings. There are still other internal control weaknesses and a lack of administrative and financial disciplines, largely concentrated at municipalities in the Central Karoo, West Rand, and Umkhanyakude districts. Eyewitness News spoke to Gauteng s Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs, which has provided a breakdown of its top municipal entities and how they have managed to attain clean audits. 1. How did the mentioned entities manage to attain clean audits?The entities that have attained clean audit outcomes have done so through strengthening some of the key areas that ensure high performance in all key performance areas (KPAs) of the entities.The following is a summary of the key areas that the entities have mastered:Good HR practices The municipalities have ensured adequate and sufficiently skilled officials are in place and their performance is managed consistently. Proper record keeping The Auditor-General requires supporting documentation during the audit process. Without which an opinion cannot be expressed as to the state of the municipals books. The entities in question ensure that information is accessible and available to support financial and performance reporting at all times. This practice is not only for audit time in these entities, it is part of their daily disciplines. Basic disciplines and controls - These are in place for daily and monthly processing and reconciling of transactions. In addition, the municipalities and entities undertake interim audits. This is to ensure that they address any outstanding issues before the submission of the annual financial statements and annual report at the end of August.Assessment of key controls - The entities undertake regular testing of key controls to ensure that all risks to the clean audit are identified and mitigated against timeously.Compliance with applicable laws and Regulations - The entities have put mechanisms in place to identify applicable legislation, changes to legislation and processes to ensure and monitor compliance with legislation. Implementation of the audit response plans - These plans are developed and implemented post each audit cycle to ensure that issues raised by the AG do not recur in the next audit cycle. Strong focus is placed on key risk areas that might affect the clean audit results, changes in accounting standards, compliance with laws and regulations and quality of reporting on performance information.2. What are some of the problems you identified and how can these be resolved? The municipalities and entities still face challenges with non-compliance findings in the areas highlighted below. These challenges pose a risk to sustaining the clean audit outcomes.Service delivery reporting - Generally referred to by the Auditor-General as the Audit of Performance Information (AoPI). The findings in this area of reporting relate to the inability of the entities to verify the validity and completeness of achieved targets.Supply Chain Management Regulations (Procurement) - In the main the following remain challenges and risks to sustaining clean audit outcomes in the municipalities within this area: Effecting payment within 30 days is a challenge as financial sustainability of most municipalities is under threat due to the current economic climate. In this regard, payments of rates and services has declined.Conflict of interest, municipal employees failing to declare their business interest, and completeness and accuracy of the exceptions on thereof. The Municipalities and entities rely on the affected parties to declare that they are doing business with the state while they are employed by the state. If the concerned individual does not declare, such information can only be known to the Municipality post the audit, when the AG makes this information available to the Municipalities and entities. Consequence management3. The Auditor-General insists that good leadership is essential in the management of municipal funds, do you agree? Good leadership is critical in ensuring good governance of Municipal finance and to that effect the following initiatives are implemented by the entities:Clean audit is set as a target in the Service Delivery and Budget Implementation Plan.Municipal managers and the CEO chair regular Operation Clean Audit meetings with heads of departments accounting to municipal managers and CEOs on audit matters.Executive mayors have regular performance monitoring sessions with mayoral committee and HODs where high-level feedback on progress towards achievement of targets are discussed (all KPI s on performance system, inclusive of clean audit).Municipal Public Accounts Committees (MPAC) regularly conduct investigation on reported cases Irregular; Fruitless and Wasteful Expenditure in accordance with the requirements of section 32(2) of the Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA), condonement done after proper investigations and once proved that no financial loss has not been incurred by the city.