Experts warn that spending the much needed financial injection is not the best idea, but investing a portion stands to yield long term benefits. JOHANNESBURG Amid rising petrol prices and a yo-yoing rand, consumers are looking forward to some relief at the promise end-year bonuses.However, experts warn that spending the much needed financial injection is not the best idea. Allan Gray Business Development Manager Bekithemba Mafulela says: With the holidays upon us, we may be tempted to take action that could distract us from achieving our financial goals by spending frivolously. Financial, political and economic uncertainty have made for an unstable environment, putting both consumers and companies in a tight squeeze.Mafulela says those fortunate enough to get bonuses this year should rather invest their money, adding that people with existing investments should consider contributing a portion of the money towards them.He suggests not blowing the much deserved cash on fleeting joys but rather looking to invest in what has more longevity in terms of personal gratification and rewards. Consider delaying spending on expensive items this holiday period. Instead, choose smaller indulgences or gifts for loved ones that do not impede on your long-term financial goals. This will help you make the strategic choices that allow you to enjoy the lifestyle you want, both now and in the future. LISTEN: How to choose the ideal Christmas gifts for loved onesThe business development manager offers reasons why should make your money go farther. FIVE REASONS WHY SHOULD INVEST YOUR MONEY1. Invested money creates money Over time, invested money grows and compounding makes it work harder for you. 2. You help to buffer against the impact of inflationOver the long term, the risk of inflation eroding the buying power of your money is probably greater than the risk of volatility in the markets, which tends to be a shorter-term phenomenon. 3. An invested bonus gives you optionsMafulela says that by spending your bonus, you forgo the opportunity to create options and buffers against unforeseen elements.4. You will prevent buyer s remorseEvery time we reach into our wallets we are making a choice between saving and spending; a choice that pits our future needs against what we need and want now. We often land up regretting what we have bought on a whim, or forgetting why it was so essential to have the item when we realise that the cash could have been spent better elsewhere.5. It is a step in the right direction to being financially secureInvesting your bonus is a step towards saving for your retirement or any other eventualities over the years.However, deciding where to put your money is equally as important as making the decision to invest. It is important to carefully research the investment options available to you and choose one to suit your time horizon, return objectives and your ability to stomach uncertainty or ups and downs in returns over different time periods.LISTEN: What to do with your 13th cheque