Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton has admitted she's disappointed by her defeat, describing the election result as painful. JOHANNESBURG - Hillary Clinton has admitted that she's disappointed by her defeat, describing the result as painful.She says she s offered to work with President-elect Donald Trump, and hopes he ll be a successful leader.Clinton has apologised to her supporters for losing the election, saying they must now accept that Trump will be president and look to the future. Last night, I congratulated Donald trump and offered to work with him on behalf of our country. I m sorry that we did not win this election for the values that we share and the vision we hold for our country. Donald Trump is going to be our president. We owe him an open mind and the chance to lead. HillaryClinton appeared composed and confident, admitting defeat to Trump, something that many thought was impossible, including Barak Obama. Clinton says she s offered to work with Trump going forward and most importantly thanked her supporters. I feel pride and gratitude for this wonderful campaign we built together. This vast, diverse, creative, unruly and energised campaign. You represent the best of America and being your candidate has been one of the greatest honours of my life. She says she understands their disappointment. I know how disappointed you feel, because I feel it too and so do tens of millions of Americans who have invested their hopes and dreams in this effort. This is painful and it will be for a long time, but I want you to remember this; our campaign was never about one person or even one election. It was about the country we love and about building an America that s hopeful, inclusive and big hearted. We have that our nation is more deeply divided then we thought, but I still believe in America and I always will and if you do we must accept this results and look to the future. Clinton has thanked her family and husband, former president Bill Clinton, saying it has been a privilege to be a part of the democratic campaign. OBAMA URGES DEMOCRATS TO PUT ASIDE THEIR DISAPPOINTMENTIn his first public address after a historic US election result, President Barack Obama has urged Democrats to put aside their disappointment after Republican Trump won the race to replace him and work toward a successful transition of presidential power.Obama says they are now rooting for the businessman-turned-reality-TV-star's success in uniting and leading the United States.Obama, who campaigned for Clinton, believes unity is the only way forward for the United States. We re now all rooting for a success in uniting and leading the country. The peaceful transmission of power is one of our hallmarks of our democracy and over the next few months we re going to show that to the world. Meanwhile, many global leaders have vowed to work with the Trump administration, some expressing both congratulations and warnings about what a Trump administration will look like. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)