The ANC says it will decisively deal with the findings of the report and hopes to deal with any allegations that undermine the party. JOHANNESBURG The African National Congress (ANC) says it s still studying the contents of Advocate Thuli Madonsela s State of capture report and will issue a statement later today. The former Public Protectors report was released yesterday and has confirmed President Jacob Zuma s corrupt relationship with the Gupta family. It also includes damning details on the relationship between Eskom CEO Brian Molefe and the controversial family. The ANC says it will decisively deal with the findings of the report and hopes to deal with any allegations that undermine the party. The party s spokesperson Zizi Kodwa says: We must do so in order to restore our people s confidence in the democratic state. We must do so in order to protect the institutions of state. We must do so in order to protect and defend the African National Congress as a party. Several opposition parties are calling on the governing party to take the necessary steps to have Zuma removed. Meanwhile, Madonsela says an investigation into contracts awarded to the New Age newspaper and other Gupta owned media by the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) should form part of the next phase of the probe into allegations that the Gupta brothers have unduly influenced state affairs.Madonsela says Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema told the office of the Public Protector how the SABC has previously allowed government departments to communicate with South Africans at no cost.Malema claims ministers required airtime to make announcements and launch campaigns but ministers and departments are now required to pay either the SABC or the New Age after the public broadcaster entered into an agreement with Gupta owned media.The allegations were then confirmed by Sports Minister Fikile Mbalula during his interview with Madonsela. Meanwhile, the Democratic Alliance (DA) is expected to say today what it plans to do next after the release of the State of Capture report, which has revealed how the Gupta family played a key role in Cabinet appointments, made under-handed deals to pursue business interests and how President Jacob Zuma failed to take action.In an unexpected turn of events yesterday, Zuma s legal team withdrew his application to interdict the release of the report.The High Court Pretoria then ordered the Public Protector to publish the document before the end of business that same day.DA leader Mmusi Maimane says South Africans have reclaimed the Constitution and now the party has planned another motion of no confidence in President Zuma.Read the Public Protector's full 'State of Capture' report below: State Capture Report 2016 by Primedia Broadcasting on Scribd