The national conference, which is held every five years, will take place in Sandton from 28 November. JOHANNESBURG - The National Executive Committee for the Local Government Association SALGA has finalised a report that will be handed over to its incoming leadership to be elected at a national conference scheduled for next week. The organisational report which highlights some of the challenges and successes faced over the last 20 years of the association s existence was deliberated in an executive meeting in Durban this week. Some of what has been discussed is a call for constitutional amendments that will make sure that all nine South African provinces are fairly represented and to ensure that the current mandate of local government supports the interests of municipalities. Deputy chairperson Mpho Nawa says: We had to look at how the Constitution is structured and able to respond to the needs of today. Nawa says while the issue of irregular and wasteful expenditure has been brought to the fore, it s also noted an improvement in how municipalities handle their finances, as all local government departments were able to meet the deadline for their annual financial statements in the past financial year. Fundamentally there is a sense that financial governance is improving. While we know there are still problems, there s a huge improvement in municipalities. We have developed a program to develop interventions for municipalities to do better. The new role and responsibility of current chairperson Parks Tau as President of the United Cities and Local Governments (UCLG) has also been addressed.Tau was elected President of the UCLG - an umbrella body for local government around the globe, in October. Nawa says the appointment is an opportune moment for South Africa to influence policy discourse in the world. Another essential part of the organisation s agenda for the national conference is to look at accurately fulfilling the Sustainable Developmental Goals (SDGs) at local state (municipal) level.In a statement the organization said: There can be no doubt that in order to overcome poverty, underdevelopment, inequality, climate change and environmental sustainability, being the most pervasive challenges confronting the world, a globally connected and inclusive, bottom-up approach is central to more effective and integrated development.The four day conference, which is held every five years, will take place in Sandton from 28 November and will be attended by political leadership, municipal managers and chief financial officers from 257 municipalities, as well as President Jacob Zuma. 1,500 delegates are expected to attend. Policy propositions are being made on the following:Sustainable and inclusive Economic Growth to enable our municipalities to play a key role in creating environments for various role players to create jobsMunicipalities must use the powers vested in them to drive bold Spatial Transformation. This is essential to reverse the stubborn spatial legacy left by apartheidGood Governance &amp; Resilient Municipal Institutions. This among others includes implementing the accountability and consequences framework that SALGA launched in the previous term. It also includes bringing communities back into the centre of municipal governance through innovative communication mechanisms including the use of ICTFinancial Vitality of Local Government &amp; Fiscal Equity Game changing energy reforms in terms of the role of Municipalities in the Electricity and Energy Sector and a sustainable model for municipal revenue that is not overly dependent upon electricity revenue. Municipalities are advocating for policy/legislation reviews to ensure that they can buy power from a range of suppliers and so that municipalities can generate their own electricity.Water economy and environmental sustainability which addresses investment in water infrastructure to enable socio-economic growth and the provision of sustainable services. Emphasis will also be given to sound environmental management and green and efficient technologies that manage the effects of climate change.Visit EWN's special municipal spending portal - created in partnership with the Auditor-General - to see how your taxes are being spent at local government level.