A political analyst says the two candidates&#8217; closing arguments have shown a new versus old school vote in the polls. JOHANNESBURG/NEW YORK - Voting in the US presidential election is now underway in around 20 states, in a presidential race that is seen as very close.Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and her husband Bill have cast their votes at a station in New York.Polls opened two hours ago in New York and just a few moments ago, Clinton voted in the town of New Castle in upstate New York, a few hours outside of New York City.Tim Kaine, vice presidential candidate, has also voted in Minerva.Vice president Joe Biden was seen casting his vote in Delaware at a high school in Wilmington and Donald Trump's son, Eric, voted for his father in New York City.Meanwhile, Trump has called the election process beautiful, saying running for president has changed him.In the battleground state of New Hampshire Trump has the early lead, two small towns of Dixville and Millsfield opened their polls just after midnight and closed as soon as everyone had voted, Trump held a 32 to 25 lead over Clinton. But there will be many more numbers that start to trickle in throughout the day, and into the night when polls close between 6 and 9pm local time.Meanwhile, Trump junior says his father will not give up to the end. I ve seen his fortitude, he just keeps fighting. I ve watched him do six events a day in six different states. I ve always knew that his work ethic was unparalleled, but I think the process has changed him so much. Political analyst Michael Smer-Cornish says the two presidential candidates closing arguments have shown a new versus old school vote in the polls. What the Republicans say they have going for them is something that we can t measure in these polls. The people are going to come out today, to reject the status quo, media and all office holders and to support Donald Trump. So it s sort of old school and new school in terms of how they re driving the votes. LISTEN: What would a Trump victory mean for the SA economy?(Edited by Zamangwane Shange)