Western parts of Johannesburg &amp; Tshwane have already started to experience heavy rain this morning. JOHANNESBURG - The South African Weather Service says Gauteng residents can expect another day of severe thunderstorms that may result in heavy rain, flash floods and strong winds.The service updated its status to a &quot;warning&quot; early on Friday morning.While parts of Gauteng are still reeling from the damage caused by this week s floods, western parts of Gauteng and Tshwane have already started to experience rain.Weather SA s Lebogang Mashile says: It was upgraded to 'warning' during the early hours of the morning. At this point in time there s nothing severe. We are still expecting some response which may result in heavy rain, hail storms, flash flooding and even damage.&quot;At least six people have died in the past 24 hours, with a three-year-old little girl from Alexandra still missing.Thursday's rain has left a number of businesses, homes and infrastructure damaged.The damage caused to some of the province s infrastructure led to road closures at major intersections, including the N3 in Linksfield, which was subsequently reopened.WATCH: Alexandra picks up pieces after flood damageMeanwhile, the Gauteng Human Settlements Department says although the area surrounding the Jukskei River had previously been cleared by officials, more could have been done to ensure it remained unoccupied.About 200 people who lived along the banks of the river were displaced when flash floods hit Gauteng on Wednesday.All those living there had been occupying the space illegally, as it had previously been declared a danger zone.The department's Keith Khoza says a follow-up by government should have been undertaken to ensure it remained unoccupied. The department has been proactive. I think the only thing that is lacking is a follow-up to ensure that nobody settles in that area. He says further steps need to be taken by the department and the police to ensure the area remains clear. The best thing is to fence it off and put signage up that any occupation of that area is illegal. It is unclear when all those affected by the floods will be given shelter but the department, together with Emergency Services, has started identifying vacant land that can be used as a temporary camp. The Jukskei River in Alexandra after floods in the area on 10 November 2016. Picture: Christa Eybers/EWN. Paramedics at the N3 in Linksfield. Picture: @EMERGMED. Click here to view more pictures and videos.(Edited by Shimoney Regter)