The NPA head answered questions in Parliament today about his reasons to initially charge Pravin Gordhan &amp; two others. JOHANNESBURG - National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams says he has dealt with many high profile cases and it s not uncommon to review or overrule a decision to prosecute.Abrahams answered questions in Parliament on Friday about his reasons to initially charge Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and South African Revenue Service (Sars) officials Oupa Magashula and Ivan Pillay.Charges were dropped earlier this week, but questions remain about why the matter was brought to court in the first place. Abrahams says neither he nor the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) are captured. I m not captured by anyone. I ve never been captured by anyone. I ll never allow myself to be captured by anyone. I ve been a career prosecutor with a very distinguished record, I take pride in everything I do, as prosecutor, lawyer and a leader of the NPA. WATCH: Shaun Abrahams in the wake of the Gordhan chargesHe was also asked whether he would apologise to Gordhan. Our Constitution provides that everyone is equal before the law and I don t deem it necessary, under these circumstances, to tender an apology. CHARGES AGAINST GORDHAN, MAGASHULA AND PILLAY COULD HAVE BEEN AVOIDED Abrahams maintains charges against Gordhan, Magashula and Pillay could have been avoided had they co-operated.He says the NPA acted independently, without any political interference, in its decision to prosecute Gordhan, Magashula and Pillay.#ShaunAbrahams On apologizing to Gordhan: &quot;Everyone is equal before the law. I don&#39;t deem it necessary to render an apology.&quot; MMAbrahams says the whole matter could've been avoided had they co-operated from the start. All of this could ve been avoided had there been closer cooperation, communication and engagement between the Hawks, Gordhan, Magashula and Pillay. Abrahams says he put great thought and consideration into prosecuting Gordhan.He says while these charges may have been dropped, an investigation into Gordhan's role in a surveillance unit at Sars that allegedly spied on politicians is at an advanced stage. Off course we ll ensure that the same thing doesn t happen in this particular matter Abrahams says he plans on looking at the list of other high-profile cases to check whether more cases need to be reviewed. Abrahams insists the case involving the finance minister was not treated any differently to other cases he's overseen. Economic Freedom Fighters Sam Matiase called on Abrahams to step down. As a result, I want to say to you that you re unfit to hold office, you ought to be disbarred as an advocate and you ve dishonoured the office and the profession. Abrahams answered that he would continue in his position.He later addressed the issue of state capture. The first point I d like to make is that there s this complete misconception that the NPA is captured. Captured by whom? Can anybody answer that question? It s rhetorical. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)