DA leader Mmusi Maimane says it&#8217;s not enough to wait for a commission of inquiry into state capture to complete its work. CAPE TOWN The Democratic Alliance (DA) is calling for a Cabinet clean-up and the resignations of those implicated in the state capture report.Party leader Mmusi Maimane yesterday announced he will be laying criminal charges against President Jacob Zuma, Eskom CEO Brian Molefe, Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane and Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown.He will also submit a report to the Hawks on the Guptas and Duduzane Zuma.Maimane adds it s not enough to wait for a judicial commission of inquiry into state capture to complete its work. There s a famous saying that says don t waste a good crisis . This is a critical crisis and we need to take all and deliberate actions to ensure that we achieve what will be better for South Africa. We re of the view that his term of office has been a blight on this country and it s time to unite now and end it soon. The opposition party has brought a motion of no confidence in Zuma.The matter will be tabled in Parliament next Thursday. It s become quite clear that our country has been run by a mafia syndicate and it s time in fact for Parliament to do what s constitutionally bound to do, which is to fire Jacob Zuma. Maimane said if African National Congress (ANC) Members of Parliament (MPs) reject a vote of no confidence in President Zuma, they will be complicit in state capture.The probe into allegations of state capture was released on Wednesday after Zuma withdrew an application to delay its release.ZUMA AND HIS CRIMINALSMaimane has described President Zuma and those implicated in the report as a criminal syndicate deeply interlinked with private crony interests .The DA leader lamented Zuma s apparent inaction following the release of the report. There should ve been one official statement from the Presidency, a full and unconditional apology and an announcement of his resignation with immediate effect. Maimane added: If I suspect there s corrupt activities, I must report that. The police must also investigate without prejudice. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)