Police urged citizens to report any missing persons who may have been swept by the heavy rains. JOHANNESBURG Police have urged people who may have missing relatives following the flash floods in Gauteng to contact the South Africa Police Service as search and rescue operations continuePolice discovered the body of a six month pregnant woman who had been swept away by Wednesday s floods in Alexandra while in her vehicle. The police s Kay Makhubela says her car was found the day before while her body was found on the N3 along the Jukskei River. Police divers as well as rescue team managed to recover the body. We ve opened a case and are still continuing with our investigation. He has urged members of the community to report any missing persons who may have been swept by the heavy rains this week. We re also appealing to the people who are residing next to the rivers and who are seeing waters when it s raining to avoid past the water because it might overpower them. SEARCH FOR MISSING GIRL CONTINUESThe Johannesburg Emergency Services say the search for the three-year-old Alexandra girl who was swept away by flash floods this week still continues.The search stretched all the way to the Hartebeesport Dam in the North West, with no luck.The girl fell into the flood from a tree where her father had climbed with the rest of the family to seek to seek refuge.Emergency service spokesperson Nana Radebe said they are nearing their targeted destination and are still hoping to find the girl. Unfortunately we have not found anything but we are hoping, on the stretch that is left, that something might come up. We are not giving as yet. At the same time, the police have said they are also searching for a three-year-old boy.Makhubela said it is unclear how many people are still missing, and has urged community members to report any missing family members while the search and rescue operation continues. We are continuing [the search]. Now we are next to Nigeria where we are trying to search for the body of a boy who was also missing since Wednesday, since the storm in Alexandra. MORE THUNDERSTORMS EXPECTED AROUND GAUTENGThe weather service s Jan Vermeulen said Gauteng residents should prepare for widespread showers and thunder storm today. Except over the southern half, we expect 60 percent chance of showers and thundershowers. We also have, for today, a watch for severe thunderstorms that can bring damaging wins, heavy rain fall that leads to local flooding and large hail. Heavy floods rocked parts of the province this week causing damage to property and loss of lives.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)