Finance MEC Barbara Creecy says the provincial government has drastically refused fruitless &amp; wasteful expenditure. JOHANNESBURG The Gauteng government says its war on wasteful expenditure is saving the province millions of rand. On Tuesday, Finance MEC Barbara Creecy delivered her medium term budget policy statement and the 2016/2017 adjustment budget. She highlighted an improvement in the 2015/2016 audit outcomes by the provincial departments, all of which obtained unqualified audits.Creecy says the provincial government has drastically refused fruitless and wasteful expenditure. Our war on wasteful expenditure is succeeding. Last year GPG dramatically reduced fruitless and wasteful expenditure, including interest paid on overdue accounts and litigations settlements by 93%, from R415 million the previous year to R29 million in this 2015/2016 financial year, a significant saving of R386 million. She says this was achieved largely because last year, 10 out of 14 departments paid 90% of their invoices within 30 days. Creecy says she has written to MECs who lead departments that incurred irregular expenditure, asking them to investigate the incidents and conduct disciplinary processes against certain officials. The Gauteng government says its economy is expected to grow by 0.8% this year, above the national economy.During his medium term budget policy statement last month Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan revised the country's growth expectation to 0.5% from 0.9% this year, saying domestic constraints continue to limit the country s growth.Creecy says the provincial economy grew by 2.9% in the second quarter and is expected to grow by 0.8% this year. Key drivers of the recovery were manufacturing, finance and business services, agriculture and transport. She says in 2015, 209,000 jobs were created by the province and 47,000 net jobs in the first two quarters of this year, adding that the sectors that created employment are manufacturing, transport, finance and business services, trade and community services.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)