The Democratic Alliance says Zuma has poor moral judgement and should be investigated by the Hawks. JOHANNESBURG - The opposition has called on the Hawks to investigate President Jacob Zuma in response to comments that he knows who has been stealing public funds. The Democratic Alliance (DA) says Zuma has poor moral judgement and should be investigated by the Hawks.Zuma, while addressing African National Congress (ANC) members on Friday, said that while he himself is not a thief, he knows of those who are.DA spokesperson Mabine Seabi says the president should not hold on to the information of people stealing funds, as by not reporting this, undermines the fight against corruption and makes him an accessory.Seabi says the party is calling on the Hawks to extend its investigation into matters of state capture to include the statements made by Zuma last week. It again shows that President Jacob Zuma is not fit to hold office at the Union Buildings and should step aside so we can ensure that someone respects the rule of law and is elected to be president. Seabi says the DA is also going to ask the police to investigate Zuma, who has shown little understanding of the impact of corruption in the country.He says they are not surprised at the president s statements, but are concerned that he has not reported the crimes which is a contravention of the law. We are concerned that President Zuma has not reported these known crimes to the police and this is in violation to the Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act. We then call on the Hawks, who are investigating matters of state capture to extend their investigation to these statements that Zuma has made. The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) and the DA say the president has a legal obligation to report criminal behaviour to law enforcement authorities and are therefore calling on him to do so immediately.The EFF s Mbuyiseni Ndlozi says Zuma must report the crimes before they lay charges against him for knowing about a crime and not reporting it. We are calling Zuma and Dudu Myeni to immediately report the people they keep mentioning who are stealing public funds. We do this because if they do not, we will be taking steps to bring charges against them. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)