The party is among those marching in PTA as Jacob Zuma withdraws bid to halt state capture report release. PRETORIA - The Democratic Alliance (DA) says today s demonstration in Pretoria is to show the government that South Africa s state institutions do not belong to the executive. The party has joined numerous other opposition parties, civil society groups and religious leaders in the capital today where President Jacob Zuma had attempted to prevent the release of the Public Protector s state capture report, but has just withdrawn his bid. The president s case was to be heard in the high court a few hundred metres away from where masses of people had gathered at Church Square. The red berets and blue shirts of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) and DA are marching side by side in groups around Church Square and past the high court. They re demanding an end to corruptions and the abuse of state resources to the benefit of the politically connected. The DA s James Selfe says their message is clear. We are trying to show this government that South Africa and its institutions belong to its citizens and not to the executive. We are trying to say the constitution belongs to all south Africans, black and white, rich and poor because at the moment there seems to be one set of standards for the politically connected and another set of standards for the rest. The demonstration was supposed to coincide with the appearance of Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan but charges were withdrawn against him on Monday. The DA leader Mmusi Maimane says Zuma has sold the interests of South Africans to his own interests and the Guptas.The party has decided to continue with its march to the Pretoria Magistrates Court despite charges against Gordhan being dropped. That Constitution have us institutions like the public Protector, the NPA, the SABC; it gave us the opportunity for those institutions never to serve a few. The EFF has also demanded President Zuma step down and for free education for university students. Meanwhile, police say adequate officers have been deployed in and around the capital to monitor the demonstrations. As more EFF members arrive for the march, police spokesperson Sally De Beer says all is in place in terms of police deployment. The police already have deployment in place and we will monitor the situation to ensure the march takes place smoothly. We call all concerned to abide by the rules agreed upon, maintain order and continue with the march in a peaceful manner. She s assured Tshwane residents that all is in place to ensure the march is peacefulEFF members are now singing while they wait for the commencement of the march. At the same time, business leader Jabu Mabuza says the constitutional process of removing a president from power should be left to unfold. We do believe that there are constitutional ways of dealing with how presidents get put in and removed from office. (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)