Mcebisi Jonas and Brian Molefe are at the centre state capture claims. Here&#8217;s what they said on video before the report was released on Wednesday. JOHANNESBURG In March 2016 Deputy Minister of Finance Mcebisi Jonas dropped a bombshell on the nation when he went public with the claim that he had been offered money and the post of finance minister and in return he would have to perform favours for the Gupta family.In a written statement Jonas said he rejected the report out of hand. He said, The basis of my rejection of their offer is that it makes a mockery of our hard-earned democracy, the trust of our people and no one apart from the President of the Republic appoints ministers. WATCH: Mcebisi Jonas: The Guptas offered me SA finance minister jobMOLEFE: THE GUPTAS ARE FRIENDLY, LIKEABLE PEOPLEIn the her report, the State of Capture, former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela says there seems to be no evidence showing that Jonas s allegations that he was sent money and a ministerial post in exchange for favours were ever investigated by the executive only the African National Congress and Parliament seem to have considered this worthy of examination.President Jacob Zuma and Ministers Des van Rooyen and Mosebenzi Zwane made attempts to interdict the release of the report.Other names that came up are those of Public Enterprise Minister Lynn Brown and Eskom Chief Executive Officer Brian Molefe. In July, Molefe said there was no reason for the power utility not to do business with the Gupta family. He said at the time that the family had not been found guilty of any wrongdoing. I don t see any reason why I or Eskom shouldn t do business with the Guptas. I think our position on that, as a human rights issue, is that our democracy is not about arbitrary action like that. Before that Molefe said the Gupta family had been treated unfairly with no evidence of wrongdoing being presented against them. He defended his statement in February when he referred to the Guptas as friendly and likeable people. WATCH: Brian Molefe on the GuptasAdditional reporting by Gaye Davis &amp; Gia Nicolaides