The former Public Protector says she reported on state capture the best way she knew how and is confident civil society will play an oversight role. JOHANNESBURG Former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela says she chose to recommend a judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, because of the unfinished processes in her investigation. She says she reported the best way she knew how adding that she knows some may ask questions about the unusual nature of the report. Madonsela says the state capture report is not like others that were released during her tenure. I don t know how the public will receive it. I didn t know that it s not like our normal reports, hence it will raise a lot of questions about why it s not like our other reports.She says because of legal action and a lot of people making themselves unavailable for interviews, she had to build in a mechanism to conclude the process. It provides some answers, raises some questions it then provides a mechanism to conclude the process. MADONSELA HAS FAITH CIVIL SOCIETY WILL ENSURE THAT THE PROCESS IS COMPLETEDShe adds that there is little left for her successor Busisiwe MKhwebane to do in this case and even if she doesn t enforce the remedial action, that won t be a problem. That won t be a train smash. Civil society has, in the last few months, took back its power to hold the state accountable. She says she is confident civil society will play an oversight role. What I have provided for as remedial action in the report will definitely move forward with civil society driving the process. Madonsela says she reported on her findings the best way she knows how.MADONSELA ON THE NEW AGE, SABCThuli Madonsela says an investigation into contracts awarded to the New Age newspaper and other Gupta owned media, by the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC), should form part of the next phase of the probe into allegations the Gupta brothers have unduly influenced state affairs.Madonsela says Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema told her office how the SABC has previously allowed government departments to communicate with South Africans at no cost. Malema claims ministers required airtime to make announcements and launch campaigns, but ministers and departments are now required to pay either the SABC or the New Age after the public broadcaster entered into an agreement with the Gupta-owned media.The allegations were confirmed by Sports Minister Fikile Mbalula during his interview with Madonsela.Read the full State of Capture report below: State Capture Report 2016 by Primedia Broadcasting on Scribd