NPA head Shaun Abrahams is briefing Members of Parliament on the decision to criminally charge Gordhan. CAPE TOWN – Parliament’s Justice Committee has expressed concern over claims that the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) is being used to fight factional battles in the African National Congress (ANC) and government. NPA head Shaun Abrahams is this morning briefing Members of Parliament on the decision to criminally charge and subsequently withdraw the case against Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, former South African Revenue Services (Sars) officials Ivan Pillay and Oupa Magashula. Committee chairperson Mathole Motshekga started off proceedings asking that Abrahams clear the air surrounding the matter and give assurances on the NPA’s independence. “This Parliament and the people of South Africa can’t afford to have an organisation like the office of the Director of Public Prosecution which is not independent and credible because this office lies at the heart of our criminal justice system.” Abrahams insists he was simply briefing President Jacob Zuma and security cluster ministers on the fees protests. He’s told MPs this morning he is aware complaints have been lodged against him and senior colleagues following the debacle involving Gordhan. “Mr Phosa has purportedly laid a complaint against me at the GCB. I’m, however, yet to hear from the GCB in respect of this particular complaint. I’ve learnt about this complaint through the media.” MUST WATCH: Shaun Abrahams in the wake of the Gordhan charges  In a briefing yesterday at Parliament, Abrahams reiterated he that doesn’t intend resigning. “Do I intend stepping down? I haven’t considered that yet. I haven’t considered whether it’s necessary for me to step down, but I’ll always do what’s right. “That’s the oath that I’ve taken from the commencement of my career. I’ll always do what’s right.” Abrahams has been the subject of many memes on social media and has been mocked by cartoonists, with many ridiculing his eyebrows and labelling him “Shaun the sheep”. WATCH: 'I am more than fit and proper to hold this position'  (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)