There&#8217;s a very real sense of anticipation for the relief the end of this election race will bring. NEW YORK - Voters in New Hampshire have started casting their ballots. It comes after months of bitter electioneering by Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump.New Hampshire! pic.twitter.com/rrZtOXBk8DThere s a very real sense of anticipation for the relief that the end of this race will bring as months of scandals, outbursts and name-calling has taken its toll on Americans, but it s not over yet.Many US citizens have been encouraging each other to go out and vote.#ImVotingBecause we need a president who will bring our nation together, not someone who will divide us by race or religion.#ImVotingBecause CLIMATE CHANGE, WOMENS RIGHTS, LGBTQ RIGHTS, IMMIGRANT RIGHTS, EQUAL PAY, RAISING MIN WAGE, HEALTHCARE, ALTERNATIVE ENERGY.#ImVotingBecause Hating Hillary will not stop her. Voting for Donald Trump WILL. Start planning ahead now so you can get out and DO IT!#ImVotingBecause #Trump makes me believe. America has been sleeping, #WakeUp, remember you dreams and #Vote like your life depends on it.Both candidates hopscotched around the swing states yesterday, crucial battle grounds needed to win.Accompanied by rock stars, family and friends they made their final closing statement, urging voters to endorse their campaigns by voting.CLUES TO THE OUTCOMENorth Carolina, one of the first states to report results on Tuesday night, might provide clues to the outcome. If Clinton wins the state, it probably means African Americans are turning out to vote at a similar rate to 2012, when President Barack Obama beat Republican Mitt Romney by four points nationally. Romney won North Carolina by two points.The States of the Nation poll found that early votes have been cast evenly between Trump and Clinton in North Carolina. Trump enjoyed a slim one-point advantage among all likely voters, 47 percent to Clinton s 46. He had a 30 percentage point lead among white voters, while Clinton led by about 85 points among black voters.Florida, with its 29 electoral college votes, is crucial to Trump. If Clinton wins Florida, she just needs to win one of the three big swing states of Ohio, Michigan and Pennsylvania while Trump would have to win all three. If he wins Florida, Trump still must win both Ohio and Michigan or hope for an upset in Pennsylvania.According to the project, Clinton enjoys the tiniest of leads in Florida, 48 percent to 47. Clinton leads Trump by 75 points among black voters and has about a 20 point lead among Hispanics. But Trump enjoys a 30 point lead among likely white voters. Clinton s success in Florida depends on heavy turnout among black voters. Without it, the race becomes razor-thin, even with a large increase in Hispanic ballots.Michigan and Ohio were too close to call on Sunday, according to the project. Clinton s support is more solid in Pennsylvania. Still, a surge of white Republican voters combined with a drop in turnout among black Democrats could be enough to tilt Ohio and Michigan to Trump and put Pennsylvania in play.If Trump remains in contention on Tuesday night after the eastern swing states have been decided, eyes will turn to Arizona. Trump led Clinton by five points on Sunday, but Arizona had moved steadily toward Clinton in recent weeks, according to the project. It is also a state where higher Hispanic turnout could tip the result in Clinton s favor.If Trump is in a position to win after Arizona, he could still be tripped up by Utah, where McMullin has remained a contender to the end.Opinion polls have Trump up by five points or more in Utah. A McMullin upset could set up a low-probability scenario where neither Clinton nor Trump reaches the 270 Electoral College votes needed to win. The election would then be decided by the Republican-controlled US House of Representatives, where lawmakers would have a three-way choice among Trump, Clinton and McMullin, a Utah native and former CIA operative.Additional information by Reuters(Edited by Shimoney Regter)