From Athlone, to Constantia to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) office and back there are lessons, but we do have to show up for class.Last week, as an ordinary citizen, I joined the protest march to deliver a memorandum to the National Director of Public Prosecutions. One of the speakers brought clarity, emphasising that we were not protesting against the NPA, as we supported this integral and significant institution. Rather, we were marched for something.When everything must fall - President Zuma, fees, white monopoly, state capture and much more - the truth of it is overwhelming and paralysing. It is destructive and useless when some are captured in finger pointing. When we break it down, nearly everything is someone else s fault.Personally, many of us know we fought apartheid, voted in 1994, pushed out our chests, lathered ourselves in freedom and moseyed on with our lives. We trusted our government to manage our precious country as it now finally belonged to all of us who lived and worked here. For a while, they did just that.But for the last nine years our country has been mismanaged like a company car the driver is not responsible for or paying for. This happened while we were building a new normalcy and our children s futures; trying to keep the promise of freedom, democracy and the word we gave our parents that our children s lives would be better than ours were as soon as we were free and equal.Everything in our country is political. That s the life I know. I find myself in the privileged position of choice. I get to choose what I want to see, what I want to do and what I think will benefit me and the people around me. Too many South Africans are clearer about what they don t want than what they want and how to get it.I invite other ordinary people who want to create a possibility of peace, justice and equality to choose our Constitution, the national development plan, the people we share this land with and an unpredictable future in our country with her resilience and spirit.This state capture situation is not our first rodeo; the state has new captors, but has always been captured. Uninterrupted, our current situation takes us to a grim predictable future. The amount of individuals, businesses, government leaders, veterans, lawmakers and lay people finding their voices to speak out and up about inequality, injustice and corruption is how it should always be. This has been my lesson: it is not up to others, it is up to me.I felt proud, swaying to the rhythm of struggle songs, familiar slogans and our national anthem. I felt comforted under the flag I was waving. It was the biggest, brightest and heaviest flag I could find. The weight of it felt symbolic amid a sea of busyness. I looked around and was excited to recognise so many people I know from different walks of my middle-class life. Decades ago, many of them were not there, now they choose to be right there in the middle, on the sides of doing well and doing good and letting more people in.I have questions about the middle class. What is our role? How do we create it? Are we prepared to take the baton and find a finish line?In my experience, middle class is relative. I grew up in Athlone on the Cape Flats where people called my family middle class. I have lived in Constantia for many years and I am also called middle class. Who gets to define what middle class looks like and whether or not we are useful in transforming our country? It might suggest that people who have education, cars, homes with gardens, jobs and access are middle class, but I can t be sure. What I do know is that it is a label that carries heavy insinuations, assumptions and stereotypes. Some spoken, some implied and some held against us. It also comes with choices and responsibility. A lot of middle-class people choose to live in the bubble of their 4 kilometre radius life, which too is a democratic right.In this same middle class there are layers of people committed to making it possible for more people to have opportunities and access to a great life. Some for their own personal feel-good reasons and many, many more because it is the right thing to do, they want to and they can.I always meet up with people in communities who share the values and life skills I support. We have more in common than not. Materially, as it was structured way back when, we are haves and have nots, this is where the change must come. My freedom and your freedom are still linked to social, economic opportunities. Our Constitution allows us all those rights, we have to find the path together in creating the opportunities.The opposite of charity is restitution and restoration; this can be very inconvenient and uncomfortable to accept. Until more middle-class people are prepared for it, we will continue to be seen as pretentious, self serving and untrustworthy.In the days prior to the march I was aware of all the posts on social media about us being there to support white monopoly of the economy, to look after our own socio-economic interests and the myriad of questioning of motives for public protest. Questions and aspersions made that we, the middle class, had no interest in rectifying the big problems in our country.After many informative conversations, questions and listening sessions, I have learnt a lot about how to ask, to listen to hear, to be curious, to withhold my judgement and to learn, not teach. Who am I to teach? I have been middle class for a long time. Without prostrating myself, apologising or piercing my sides with a sword, I can claim a space as an African who wants to make amends, cause irreversible transformation, where I am, with what I have.We all can, we must want to. I invite you to get on this field, we can be amazing together. President Zuma may succeed in uniting our country after all. More and more voices are being found and our fears are not stopping us, our goals, our vision for what is possible is being crystallised together. It seems unbelievable, but through contention and contestation we are finding each other. I feel it! We marched with it.South Africa is on the field again and we are in action. The middle class questions answered, show up, ask, listen, support, share your skills, your time, your experience and help.Nkosi Sikelel iAfrika. God Bless Africa.Lisa Joshua Sonn is a social activist. Follow her on Twitter:@annalisasonn