Brian Molefe announced this afternoon that he&#8217;s resigning as Eskom CEO after the release of the Public Protector&#8217;s state capture report. JOHANNESBURG - Brian Molefe says the fact that his resignation from Eskom does not mean that he is admitting to being involved in any wrongdoing.He announced on Friday that he is resigning as Eskom CEO after the Public Protector s state capture report, which was released last week, showed that he had been in continuous contact with the Gupta family.The report showed that he had been making regular phone calls to the family while they were negotiating a deal that saw Eskom giving them a massive pre-payment for coal.Advocate Thuli Madonsela also said it appeared that Eskom had tried to force the Optimum mine into financial distress so the Guptas could buy it.The Democratic Alliance s (DA) Natasha Mazzone says Molefe has done the right thing. We think in line with the corporate governance it is the right thing to do given the very serious implications of the State of Capture report released by the Public Protector last week. Meanwhile, Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown has responded to Molefe s resignation, saying she s sad to see him go.In a statement released a few minutes ago, Brown says she respects his decision.The minister says he s been instrumental in developing Eskom s turnaround strategy which is beginning to yield positive results.WATCH: Brian Molefe on the GuptasRELATIONSHIP WITH THE GUPTASThe outgoing Eskom CEO said last week he will explain his friendship with the Gupta family and claims of a conflict of interest at the right time.Molefe wept while saying he wasn t given an opportunity to explain his side of the story.He said he would have explained his friendship with the Guptas to Madonsela if she had given him an opportunity to do so. She never raised it with me, she never asked me what is your response to that? because we never had a meeting. It is a matter I would have liked to discuss with her to and to establish with her what the nature of the conflict was, or to explain myself at the right moment, because now I will take legal advice. At the right moment, I will explain that. He maintained that he wasn't given an opportunity to do so because she had cancelled a meeting with him.Molefe said there will be a time and place to explain himself further. Either at the inquiry or at the review I will explain that. Eskom said it supplied the Public Protector with all the relevant information relating to the Tegeta deal and other matters involving the board, but this didn t find its way into her report.Click here for an infographic on Molefe s movements in Saxonwold.