Ordinary Muslims are worried that Donald Trump's victory will be a propaganda gift to jihadist groups. JOHANNESBURG - Many Muslims around the world are expressing dismay this afternoon over Donald Trump s election as US president, saying they fear it might raise tensions between the West and Islam and also contribute to radicalisation.While Egypt's president made an early congratulatory call to Trump, ordinary Muslims are worried that his victory will be a propaganda gift to jihadist groups.Others are apprehensive that the president-elect will implement campaign pledges to clamp down on Muslims entering the United States.During Trump s campaign he said he wants to build a wall between the US and Mexico to stem illegal immigration and has accused the country of sending rapists and drug dealers to the US.Trump has also proposed a blanket ban on Muslims entering the country.Republican chief strategist Sean Spicer didn't really respond to happens now with regards to these statements, saying they want to regain the trust of the American people. Let's savour the victory a little bit. He's got to put a plan together. He s got three months before the inauguration and the victory, not only at the top of the ticket but all the way down, and then put those pieces and people together to allow this agenda of change to move forward. MUGABE S SUPPORTERS WELCOME TRUMPSupporters of President Robert Mugabe have welcomed Trump s presidential victory. The victory over his Democratic rival Hillary Clinton has been hailed by pro-Mugabe officials as good for Zimbabwe. Ruling party Member of Parliament Psychology Maziwisa has told state ZBC radio that he sees this as a good thing for Africa and especially for Zimbabwe.Higher Education Minister Jonathan Moyo appears to be pleased too; he said on Twitter that Trump s win had sent liberals in America into hiding. He said Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton was instrumental in getting an act of congress passed in 2001 that would help stop Zimbabwe getting funds from the IMF and the World Bank. What many in Zimbabwe are wondering now is: Does Trump's win foretell another popular vote for President Mugabe?OIL REVERSE LOSSESOil reversed most of its early losses of almost 4% to trade near $46 a barrel as the market recovered from an initial Brexit-like reaction to Trump's surprise victoryBut the dollar and European stocks pared losses, with traders citing what some saw as a conciliatory speech by Trump following his win.The rand has weakened along with other emerging market currencies Economist Iraj Abedian says some currencies will strengthen straight away while emerging markets are on the losing end. The losers will be emerging markets whose currencies have been, like ours, will begin to weaken. So the Swiss franc, the euro may immediately benefit in the next few weeks but in the three to six month they will lose that gain. 