A few weeks ago I had a conversation with my child's teacher. She told me that while my son was a lovely young boy, he had disrupted a lesson recently by asking his fellow 10-year-olds - mid-lesson - if they would ever vote for Donald Trump.She reprimanded him and told him to stop distracting his peers and that no-one in the class was even eligible to vote in the US elections. But Ma'am, he argued, Trump is a racist and he s building a wall because he wants to keep people of colour out of his country. Needless to say, he lost the argument to keep discussing Trump and he and all the other little people were soon refocused on the work at hand.That conversation presented an interesting dilemma for me. Do I reprimand him for being too talkative and disturbing the class, or commend him for being aware of what was happening in the world and the real issues around Trump?Shortly after that meeting another child his age told me that she didn't know what the US elections even were, and I decided there and then that I was definitely going with the latter.I was rather proud that my boy had a decent current affairs knowledge, knew who Donald Trump was and, importantly, could see through his brash, I m-richer-than-God-and-can-say-what-I-want-when-I-want rhetoric and actually saw Trump for the bigot he is.This, by the way, is the same child who woke up at 5am on election results day to watch CNN. I ll admit that this journalist of a mother was thrilled.The topic of Trump and Clinton has been debated at great length worldwide and South Africa is no different. Neither are the spaces I occupy, home included.And that s why my angst and distress has intensified since the election results were announced, because how do we explain this surprise result?If we know that picking on people and shaming them is wrong, then how do we explain that a racist and a bully and sexist - the same man who called women fat and pigs - actually won the election? The same man, need I remind you, who mocked a disabled reporter.How do I, we, explain that this is the new president of the most powerful country in the world?How do we make sense of the fact that despite these deplorable character traits - he - the above-mentioned bully - still won the race?I ve spent the past decade trying to teach my offspring that being mean and vile and discriminating against people because of colour or gender is reprehensible.I ve made them wear pink, for goodness sake, while explaining there s no such thing as boy colours and girl colours or specific toys for specific genders.I ve forbidden them from using colour when describing people and insisted they rather give distinguishable features. I ve taught them that money doesn t matter and what s in your heart is more valuable than what s in your wallet.That it doesn t pay to be a bully.Blah blah blah...But clearly it does - and it did. Trump did it and won, so there s the proof surely, right?Explaining is going to be hard to do. Understanding more so.Somehow 10-year-olds and libtards alike (as I was recently called on Twitter) will find meaning in this madness as we hope that Trump will be reined in and toned down.The stark realisation has dawned that the memes and the man are now one.Biff the bully has become class president, despite belittling and degrading those around him. And the joke s on us.Explaining will be hard to do!Katy Katopodis is editor-in-chief of EyewitnessNews. Follow her on Twitter @KatyKatopodis