She made her first public appearance to collect her Favourite Female Artist gong at the American Music Awards. LONDON - Selena Gomez has described feeling "absolutely broken inside" before entering rehab earlier this year to battle depression brought on by lupus. The 24-year-old singer made her first public appearance to collect her Favourite Female Artist gong at the American Music Awards at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles on Sunday evening after taking some time off due to suffering from "anxiety, panic attacks and depression" because of her lupus condition. During the Hands to Myself hitmaker's emotional acceptance speech she opened up about trying too hard to please others. Speaking on stage, she said: "I think it's safe to say most of you know my life whether I liked it or not. And I had to stop, because I had everything and I was absolutely broken inside, and I kept it all together enough to where I would never let you down, but I kept it too much together to where I let myself down. "I don't want to see your bodies on Instagram. I want to see what's in here. I'm not trying to get validation, nor do I need it anymore...” The brunette beauty went on to say how "grateful" she is to her "loyal" fans and how much she "cares" about them. She continued: "All I can say from the bottom of my heart is I'm so grateful that I have the opportunity to be able to share what I love every single day with people that I love, and I have to say thank you so much to my fans, because you guys are so damn loyal, and I don't know what I did to deserve you. But if you are broken, you do not have to stay broken. "That's one thing you should know about me: I care about people. And this is for you." The Come and Get It singer stunned the star-studded audience with her moving speech, and moved fellow pop beauty Ariana Grande to tears. The Dangerous Woman singer said: "I literally almost cried when I saw [Selena]. I haven't talked to her in a long time. So, I don't know what's going on, but I gave her a huge hug and she looks beautiful. And I'm so happy that she's here. I'm happy to see her out and about."