Julius Malema told members not to provoke police leadership and tried to negotiate with police to give them access into the seat of government. PRETORIA With the highly anticipated state capture report now released into the public domain, thousands of Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) supporters have converged on the Union Buildings to demand the president s resignation.Red beret members have clashed with police who have used tear gas, stun grenades, rubber bullets and water canon to push demonstrators away from the gates.The confrontation between police and eff supporters happened just a few minutes before EFF leader Julius Malema arrived.#StateCaptureReport #EFF Malema speaking to cops on entering the Union Buildings. Says they come in peace. MC pic.twitter.com/TqF3N18qFIHe has now called on his supporters who are pushing the fence of the Union Buildings to move away from the gate, saying the party s leadership is negotiating with police to give them access into the seat of government. Now you are stopping the police from even co-operating with us and open the gate, because someone stupid has thrown stones at the police. Stop being stupid. Whoever threw the stone, stop being a fool. He has, however, warned that if police still refuse them entry into what he calls their property, they will go and occupy the streets of the Pretoria CBD. There is strong police presence inside the Union Buildings, with police forming a barrier around the fence and a police helicopter hovering above.SHOULD ZUMA FOOT THE BILL?The question of whether President Jacob Zuma should personally foot the bill for his application dominated argument in court. Perhaps the strongest lines came from Advocate Dali Mpofu, who described President Zuma s application as an aggravated abuse of the court process.He says this case involved a full bench of judges, numerous legal counsel and was set down for two days. Mpofu told the court that Zuma was warned not to frustrate the Public Protector s process, and he should therefore pay for this application. Advocate Dumisa Ntsebeza says this matter should not fall to the taxpayer, but the president instead. While the court ordered costs to the presidency, the judges have given Zuma seven days to file an affidavit stating why he shouldn t personally be held liable.(Edited by Masechaba Sefularo)