With high levels of inequality is South Africa, experts say there&#8217;s a need for good governance. CAPE TOWN South Africa's high level of inequality is among the factors hampering good governance within local government.According to the Auditor-General s report released in June, only 54 out of 272 South African municipalities audited received clean audits for the 2014-2015 financial year, which translates to a mere 19,8 percent.Some experts say this low number indicates that there is a lack of good governance in local government.But when asked to define good governance, they admitted that an official definition is hard to come by.The word accountability was mentioned often when attempting to describe good governance.Professor Johan Burger, a public finance, policy and project manager, warns that accountability is influenced by a country's equality levels. Burger says in a very equal society, the four main role-players - namely public office bearers, councillors, service delivery beneficiaries and tax payers - are all the same people. Burger says the tax payers pay the tax, they benefit from the services, they assign representatives to represent them, so they could hold them accountable. But with its high levels of inequality in South Africa, Burger says taxpayers have a small voice and may end up with poor service delivery. But they don't object in terms of the financial implications, so they don't see the link between what pays for the services and how the services are provided. So I think one of the big things in our country that we believe must come right, and I think we all do, is the fact of inequality [must be rectified]. Otherwise, accountability will continue to suffer. Andrew Siddle, a UCT lecturer, also points out the crucial role political competition plays in the successful running of a municipality.By using the Western Cape as an example, he says it s never been a conclusion until recently that the ruling party would win the next election in the Western Cape. They [were] completely on their toes at all times to actually go out there and make sure that they get the governance thing right and advertise themselves as such. It's that political competition which has long existed in the Western Cape that makes a large difference. It will be interesting to see if that is still the case in 10 years time now that the Western Cape has become predominantly DA. Both Burger and Siddle agreed with School of Public leadership professor Erwin Schwella that more often than not, a lack of the correct skills is what is sinking some local governments.Schwella says it is all about aptitude and attitude. You can have a very competent set of people, but if their attitudes are wrong then they are not effective and ethical. You can also have people with the right attitude, but if they don't have the competency to plan, manage, budget, control, or account then they also fail. Communication between provincial governments and municipalities, transparency and accessibility were all mentioned as headwinds to good governance.Schwhella has further placed some of the responsibility at the door of constituents, saying South Africa needs an active citizenry, not a destructive one, to ensure and enforce good governance at a local government level.How would you define good governance? Share your thoughts in the comment section below.