Salga &amp; the Ethics Institute share their views on the improvements that can be made to ensure municipalities are well run. JOHANNESBURG The South African Local Government Association (Salga) says despite some areas of regression, the last three years have shown a positive trend in the audit outcomes of municipalities in the country. Responding to the Auditor-General s 2014-2015 MFMA General Report, Salga says it is worth pointing out that from the content that 80% of South Africa's local government budget was managed by those municipalities which have attained an unqualified audit outcome or better. It says some of what has contributed to the efficiency of successful municipalities, is a good and robust internal control environment. The governance and oversight mechanisms/structures in these municipalities function at a performance level rather than at a compliance level. It adds: Record keeping is very good. [The] relationship between Administration (municipal manager) and Executive (mayor) is also good and professional with healthy respect. There are, however, instances where record keeping for funds managed by municipalities is not as strong as it should be and this gives rise to instances where the municipalities cannot provide the source documents for money spent.The association says this does not mean that the money has been improperly spent, however the root cause of the issue is keeping track of financial records.With &quot;obvious&quot; room for improvement on their part, Salga believes high levels of debt owing to municipalities by households, business and government contribute to issues of limited cash flow which in turn impacts on the ability of councils to fulfill some of their obligations and strategic plans.Asked what can be done to address issues of irregular and wasteful expenditure Salga notes a need for education, communication and advocacy to be continued, inculcating a culture of ethical and value for money contracting will assist, as well as improved levels of consequences.About Salga: SALGA takes on more of a support and advisory role to local government in terms of financial performance rather than one of holding them to account. In this regard Salga has a Municipal Audit Support Program (MASP) which provides support and advice to Municipalities and together with other stakeholders such as National Treasury and Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (COGTA).As a result the organisation has, over the last three financial years, been able to turn the trend towards one of gradual and sustained improvement in audit outcomes. It also educates and provides the necessary skill to councilors and officials in terms of complying with the financial and regulatory requirements. This assists with enhanced oversight, governance and accountability.Central to a commitment by municipalities - as in Gauteng s local government - to address issues of compliance and have a more proactive engagement at an ethical level is the Ethics Institute South Africa.The institute which provides ethics training, risk assessment and various interventions to improve the organisational culture in municipalities has been involved in the drafting of the national local government anti-corruption strategy. In its stakeholder engagement process, the institute says it found that the lack of consequence management or accountability was a recurring theme in discussions.As well as challenges with skills and professionalism, lack of implementation of basic regulatory and governance requirements, and weak community oversight and accountability (communities holding municipalities to account).The organisation's Kris Dobie says, Lack of accountability was the number one thing people mentioned. Municipalities often spend quite a bit of money on these things , table it to council and then the motivation for taking it further and concluding them isn t there and those reports simply lie there. People are not being held accountable, people are not seen to be held accountable and at the end of the day that breaks moral of your civil servants who want to be professional and do the right thing. He says there are good policies in place, as mentioned by Salga, but regulation does not carry much weight if it is not followed or is bypassed for the wrong reasons. We focus at that organisatonal culture the shorthand for that is how easy it is for people to do the right thing in this organisation? Do we create the type of environment where it s easy for people to do the right thing? Those things obviously have an impact on how an organisation is run and obviously service delivery at the end of the day, procurement practices etc. Speaking on transparency and the use of consequence management as suggested by the Public Service Accountability Monitor he says, If you have an ethical environment those things [policies and regulations] won t be bypassed for the wrong reasons, you need transparency in the process but you are not going to fix the problem with more policies, more controls and the likes when you need to focus on the human aspect of it and the political administrative interface. Elaborating on the work the institute does Dobie says: A lot of the decline, its things that individuals struggle with behind the scenes. So there isn t a platform for people to come out and say I am also a little bit frustrated because I get asked to bypass certain policies and procedures. Because municipalities have a reputation of being a difficult place to work, they are very politically active environment by definition and there is a lot of pressure on people, it is particularly important to be seen as an ethical organization that is committed to a very specific deliverable objective. Dobie maintains he has received a positive response from municipalities committed to improving their administrative functions.