A Moroccan state TV channel broadcast a tutorial showing women how to conceal the evidence of domestic violence with make-up. JOHANNESBURG A public television station in Morocco has apologised after uproar on social media followed its broadcast of an item on make-up to hide the facial bruises of battered women.The sequence, marking last week's International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women, was transmitted on the morning magazine programme Sabahiyate, to show the type of make-up to use when a woman has been assaulted .It depicted a woman with a swollen face, with the host telling viewers that she was not really injured, but that these were just cinematic effects .Speaking in Arabic, she says, After the beating, this part is still sensitive, so don t press. Make sure to use loose powder to fix the makeup so if you have to work throughout the day, the bruises don t show, she said as she applied make-up on the woman s face, eventually concealing the woman s bruises. Green is applied with a brush to camouflage the reddish part, followed by an orange corrector then yellow, then a foundation , she said, adding that the aim was to provide solutions to women who need such advice so they can continue with their daily lives and go to work .Wednesday's broadcast initially went unnoticed, but after it was posted on the channel's website, by Friday it had provoked a storm of reaction on social media.The video has provoked shock and criticism on Twitter.No woman should ever have to do this! #domesticabuse #16DaysOfActivism https://t.co/BkS7HXuwahSo wrong ... in so many ways ... where to start? #domesticabuse must not be covered up with silence ... or makeup. https://t.co/CyI749MCXMInstead of giving women makeup tips to hide evidence of #domesticabuse, please teach men how not to abuse women #Morocco #VAW https://t.co/GOjwysig7YInstead of covering up the bruises...how about just finding a way to prevent it? Save a life. #domesticabuse #domesticviolenceawareness https://t.co/OP1U5Sk3uH