The Proteas skipper was found guilty of ball tampering when he appeared to apply a substance to the ball. JOHANNESBURG Cricket South Africa (CSA) says it will seek clarity from the International Cricket Council (ICC) on its verdict around Faf du Plessis. The Proteas skipper was found guilty of ball tampering when he appeared to apply a substance to the ball, allegedly from a mint. CSA CEO Haroon Lorgat says exact rule definitions are needed. In fairness to him and the ICC, this is an unprecedented case involving unique issues of policy, science and performance that need to be carefully considered at the highest levels in the game. He added: CSA believes the laws of the game do not currently define the term artificial substance, leaving room for inconsistent application of the rules. The Proteas skipper explains why it s taken so long to speak out. The reason I m only speaking now is because CSA made it pretty obvious when they said I can and will only speak after the hearing, so it s not like I was disrespectful to the media by not answering their questions. I was not allowed to speak. The batsman has confirmed that he will appeal the decision, despite being allowed to play in Thursday s third Test against Australia.Should he receive one more demerit point within the next two years, Du Plessis will likely face a match suspension.Former Proteas bowler Paul Harris said Du Plessis is being unfairly treated for something that s common place in cricket. Every time someone has chewing gum in their mouth and they are shining a ball, you going to have to fine them. I ve seen maybe four of five different instances, in the last six or seven Test matches, where other players have done the same thing. This is not an unfamiliar punishment for Du Plessis after he was found guilty and penalised for tampering with the ball in a Test match against Pakistan in 2013. In that incident, he was seen rubbing it aggressively on his pant zipper.South Africa have an unassailable 2-0 lead in the three-match series and are chasing a historic series whitewash.On Monday Proteas team manager Mohammed Moosajee condemned the approach used by Australian media and Channel 9 News in the manner in which they dealt with issues around du Plessis.Moosajee released a statement in which he said it was unnecessary for the media to accost Du Plessis at the airport regarding the alleged ball tampering issue.WATCH: The moment that led to Faf du Plessis being found guilty of ball tampering