Petitions which garner tens of thousands of signatures send a powerful message, but do the work? JOHANNESBURG The rising call for action against President Jacob Zuma by civil groups and prominent South Africans coupled with the reach of social media networks has seen a number of online petitions calling for the embattled ANC president to go gain tens of thousands of digital signatures. But are the campaigns a waste of time or effective and necessary steps in holding Zuma accountable?One such petition, launched by social activist Brent Lindique in December last year, has gained renewed traction and has now collected more than 190,000 signatures, while an Avazz petition nears the 60,000 mark. It's unclear who started this petition.Lindeque says he started his campaign after Nhlanhla Nene was removed as Finance Minister. Asked why the petition was not handed to either Parliament or the President's office or the ANC at the time, Lindeque said he didn t feel he had the resources to take the campaign further and &quot;government [wasn't] really reacting to the petition even though it had over 150,00 people who had signed it. No one really thought of it as anything big. He addded, The petition was sitting dormant for a while. It was sort of just sitting online I think waiting for something to happen like the state capture. Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema says his party will present a motion of no confidence in the president in Parliament and has vowed to approach the courts if this fails.One of the latest calls for action has been driven by the Democratic Alliance compelling the public and members of Parliament, including those from the ANC, to support a motion to remove Zuma from office. The campaign has drawn over 60,000 signatures so far.As these online signatures represent only a fraction of the public (considering the number of people with access to internet in South Africa and the fact that most of these people are based in urban areas) one has to ask the question, &quot;How much weight do online campaigns really hold?&quot;.Muhammad Cajee, Executive Director at the Auwal Socio-Economic Research Institute (ASRI), says: We don t have citizen initiative laws where a sub set of signatures like 100,000 would force Parliament to have a debate about the issue or force the President to debate the issue. At the end of the day they are a show of public support for a specific issue, and obviously the more signatures, the more coverage they will get from the media, that then amplifies the public conversation around the issue. However, Cajee also notes the signatures could be used as leverage if an MP is approached. In terms of citizens being able to influence the way that MPs vote, the most likely scenario is to contact MPs in their surrounding areas and ask them to vote in favour [of the petition's goal]. But our proportional representational system makes it that the party is much stronger in influence over MPs. He adds, With something as serious as Zuma stepping down, it has to be relative to the number of voters who voted for the ANC for example. You are going to expect that a petition needs to have a substantially bigger number than 20,000. Several hundred thousand would be much more credible or relevant for an issue as big as the president needing to resign. Painting the scenario for if the voting goes ahead, Cajee says, If you look at the motion of no confidence constitutionally it says that a 50% plus one vote would force the president to resign which means that out of the 400 MPs in Parliament, 204 need to vote in favour of no confidence. The ANC is sitting at 248 MPs which means around 50 ANC MPs would have to vote with all of the opposition MPs assuming that they vote in favour as well. If this fails, the remaining options, according to Cajee, would be for Zuma to follow his own conscience or to be removed through a party recall in the same manner as former president Thabo Mbeki.