United Democratic Movemonet says Molefe&#8217;s resignation should encourage Jacob Zuma to follow suit. JOHANNESBURG Political parties have reacted to the resignation of Eskom CEO Brian Molefe with some welcoming his decision to step down The United Democratic Movemonet says Molefe s resignation should encourage President Jacob Zuma to follow suit.Molefe announced yesterday that he s leaving his position effect from 1 January.However, Molefe says he has done nothing wrong. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa says, He s showing people like Zuma that one doesn t have to prove beyond reasonable doubt balance of probability is always sufficient enough for one to quit. And Zuma is worse because he has even lied when he said he has never given an opportunity to respond. At the same time, Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane has told Eyewitness News that people should not start accusing those implicated in the state of capture report of being guilty until the matter goes through a judicial process.Mkhwebane was speaking on the sidelines of the University of Limpopo student trust fund dinner at the Gallagher Convention Centre yesterday evening.She says it s a great loss for the public sector to have someone of Molefe s calibre leave its ranks.Mkhwebane has, however, urged those that people seek judicial review and not make haste judgments on those implicate in the report. All I can say is that people can lodge judicial review if they re not happy about the outcome of the report. So that s the most important thing which I would say to people I don t think it s justifiable for us or for people to start criticising or start thinking that people are guilty. Mkhwebane says she hopes he will be able to serve in other structures. I mean honestly it s a loss for the country. MY ESKOM RESIGNATION NOT ADMISSION OF GUILTMolefe said the fact that his resignation from Eskom does not mean that he is admitting to being involved in any wrongdoing.Advocate Thuli Madonsela said it appeared that Eskom had tried to force the Optimum mine into financial distress so the Guptas could buy it.The Democratic Alliance s (DA) Natasha Mazzone said Molefe has done the right thing. We think in line with the corporate governance it is the right thing to do given the very serious implications of the State of Capture report released by the Public Protector last week. Meanwhile, Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown has responded to Molefe s resignation, saying she s sad to see him go.In a statement released a few minutes ago, Brown says she respects his decision.The minister said he s been instrumental in developing Eskom s turnaround strategy which is beginning to yield positive results.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)