It is the season of advent. Many things have changed since the results of the recent municipal elections. And we must not miss the true meaning of Herman Mashaba.The symbolic significance of Mashaba - the first DA-elected mayor in Johannesburg since 1994, cannot be ignored. The meaning underlying the coming of Mashaba is both refined and rudimentary.He is the emblematic Jesus that has come back. &quot;The ANC will rule until Jesus Christ returns&quot;, said President Jacob Zuma, in an effort to convince people that the DA or any other political party would never rule the city.Jesus has risen. And Zuma has a price to pay or rather, a foot to eat.Mashaba, a businessman and investor in mining, construction, exhibitions and events, real estate, fuel distribution and logistics, power generation, bullet proof materials, insurance, and global cleaning services is the DA man who has come to make demands. The DA god has taken a human body in the City of Gold, and now dwells among its inhabitants.He is rumored to be a threat against the pothole-strewn paths - unbearable to the white middle-class of Parkhurst and Bryanston or... those who live in Ponte, too afraid to admit their struggles with holes in the roads as well. Enjoy your last months of low-cost penthouse living.He has come to fight crime and corruption, also known as the jaywalkers of suburbia. Also known as blue-collar workers just going about their business and trying to exist. He has come to serve the public. To fix sanitation issues in Diepsloot and Alex, with his mouth and some big talk.Mashaba has come to upset the liberals, who spend their days participating in armchair activism and social media protests. Go forth and feed your Facebook fury. Facebook - The other blue. We see you, you NGO highflyers.Let us dive in and take a look at the top 3 reasons that &quot;Jesus&quot; has come to rule:1. Mashaba has come to reveal the Father, the DA: The Father does not hesitate to announce the shortcomings of the ANC. The Father does not shy away from denouncing the ANC's sins. We are all sinners, except the DA. We are far from perfection and always will be. And so, to bring us closer to that, Mashaba has arrived - A champion representative of perfection that is the Father.2. Mashaba has come to reveal the works of the devil: In the chapter called: Maimane, in the Blue Bible, verse L84U states: &quot;&quot;For this purpose the Son of the DA was manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil.&quot; In this context, we cannot for sure interpret the words of Pastor Maimane. We can only assume that it refers demons that dwell in the city: The corruption, the scandal, and the unemployment.3. Mashaba has come to prepare for the second coming: The first coming of Jesus is only preparation. Jesus will return a second time. Possibly to stay forever. It is during this second coming that the Father has promised to save suburban dogs from the cruelty of Jacob Zuma and make the ownership of these animals as pets an interracial right. Not something that is just for whites. The text in Helen verse 1NCE-UPON-A-TIME says that: &quot;This same Jesus, which promises to take you into a heavenly Johannesburg, shall so come again with the same unfulfilled promises&quot;. So open your doors Johannesburg. It is not a Jehovas witness that knocks.Meanwhile in hell, the ANC is trying to find the nearest entrance, so that they can jump in - at the request of Julius Malema, the people's saint.