All government laundry seems to be aired in the open now. Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan was ordered to present himself to the Hawks last week Thursday in relation to the SARS investigative unit set up in 2007, but following legal advice declined to appear before the crime-fighting unit. Since then Gordhan has openly said he is prepared to die at his desk and fend off the would-be looters of the state. National Treasury has come out fighting too, throwing down the gauntlet to Eskom in relation to information relating to the Tegeta coal supply tender. Amidst all of this, the ANC appears to be the proverbial house divided. Similarly, President Jacob Zuma s Cabinet is equally divided as ministers openly take him on (Jeremy Cronin, Blade Nzimande and others) and lightweights like Des Van Rooyen and Mineral Resources Minister Msebenzi Zwane start openly questioning their colleague Gordhan and his powers. President Zuma conveniently is out of the country with no-one really steering the ship. Well, Minister for Women in the Presidency, Susan Shabangu, is acting president, perhaps a leitmotif for the ineptitude of the current moment.It feels a little like December as the rand immediately nose-dived on the back of the news of Gordhans possible arrest. Much ink has been spilled on the matter and on what exactly is going on yet there is a perfectly simple answer to all this. It goes like this; Gordhan and the relatively powerful Team Treasury have been doing a sterling job in overseeing South Africas macro-economic stability and ensuring that the ratings agency downgrades are kept at bay. Most economists will say that they have already factored in a downgrade but be that as it may, Gordhan has been preaching fiscal discipline and has been firm that government expenditure has to be cut. He has steadfastly refused to grant SAA a R5 billion bailout and has said we cannot afford the nuclear deal or a 0% fee hike for universities. His predecessor, Nhlanhla Nene, now in the political wilderness (not the BRICS Bank) was fired for saying precisely that too. Gordhan, his deputy Mcebisi Jonas and National Treasury stand as a bulwark between South Africa and complete state capture. They have held the line against a maverick and dangerous populism and nepotism within the ANC and from Zuma himself. Gordhans stance represents an inconvenience for Zuma and his cronies. He therefore must be replaced. Removing Gordhan or pressurising him to resign would ensure that someone more pliable might be appointed, thus allowing Zuma and his merry band free rein over state-owned enterprises and related contracts worth billions. Post elections, Zuma has been eerily silent, pausing only to make an angry speech in KwaZulu-Natal where he denied he was a liability to the ANC. It was Gwede Mantashe who had to front up during a post-NEC press conference, muddling his way through collective responsibility. But he knows and we all know that the ANCs poor electoral showing is in large part due to Zuma and the impunity with which governs. What does Zuma, the wounded animal do? He unleashes the Hawks on Gordhan and attempts to shore up his and his cronies wealth ahead of an ANC leadership contest in 2017. Though if the ANCYL had its way, that would take place earlier. Former Finance Minister Trevor Manuel has called on the President to exercise his constitutional responsibility and protect Gordhan. Manuels call is laudable but this is a President who has scant regard for the Constitution as has been seen repeatedly. He governs only in his own narrow interests and those within his patronage network. Its that simple really and to suggest otherwise would be nave. We are dealing with a President who is a threat to the very fabric of our Constitutional democracy. Gordhan knows that and Mantashe does too. But given the balance of power within the ANC, he just seems powerless to stop the wreck.Needless to say, this would not be South Africa if there werent some bitter irony.It is worth repeating that Hawks head Berning Ntlemeza is the same person the North Gauteng High court found to be unfit to hold his position. In fact, Justice Matonjane called Ntlemeza biased, dishonest and lacks integrity and honour and found that he made false statements under oath. One might say that an application to set aside Ntlemezas appointment would be appropriate. What we are experiencing is vintage Zuma - all part of a single narrative which has shown us over and over again that he is unfit to govern. The further irony of course is that Zuma himself has over 700 charges of fraud and corruption hanging over him like a Sword of Damocles. It is only a foolhardy appeal process that is keeping the inevitable at bay. The latest news that Gordhan might face charges of corruption for granting former SARS deputy head Ivan Pillay early retirement is thus laughable. Just yesterday both SABC COO Hlaudi Motsoeneng and Minister of Communications Faith Muthambi refused to account to Parliament for wastage at the SABC and the investigation into the PRASA locomotive deal seems off the table amidst rumours that the probe could again lead to Zuma and his network.And so again, we stand at a crossroads; betwixt and between, watching an intense power struggle play itself out at the expense of governance and the economy.Quite how this all plays out is anyones guess. Gordhan, buoyed by support from within and also from powerful business and civil society lobbies and with the law on his side (all signs are that the Hawks have no case against him), clearly feels emboldened not to present himself before the ham-handed Hawks. In this scenario Gordhan stymies Zuma and his cronies while Zuma lends Gordhan no support. Its stalemate not checkmate and the paralysis of now pretty much plays itself out. Alternatively, Zuma lashes out and dares to fire Gordhan. This time replacing him with someone pliable but more acceptable to the markets. In that scenario we witness looting of the state with a less brazen veneer. But its looting all the same with disastrous effects for the economy. Because what possible reason would Zuma have to remove the very capable and trusted Gordhan except to get his hands deeper into the SOE cookie jar? Zuma may well over-extend himself, precipitate a crisis and lose the war. The nearer the ANC gets to its elective conference in 2017, the more Zuma will have to lose as patronage seeps away from him and possible new players enter the stage. The ANC has also lost access to the patronage that comes from running major metros. Zuma may yet find himself isolated as many second-term Presidents eventually do. The ANC NEC is dominated by Zumarites who for now hold the balance of power yet power is a fickle thing.In this fast-moving unpredictable environment anything is possible. Therefore business and civil society cannot afford to be bystanders and wait for the ANC to sort itself out. Already Business Leadership SA and a group of economists have warned in open letters of the dire consequences of removing Gordhan from his position. This pressure needs to be stepped up more so now than before.Gordhan too will need to play his cards carefully. He needs to win the war and not be distracted by the battles, hard though that is. State capture is difficult in places where transparency is a key governance principle. Shining light on the dark places is therefore critical in the next months and the media will have a crucial role to play.Judith February is based at the Institute for Security Studies. Follow her on Twitter: @judith_february.