This week has been emotional, revealing and to a large extent, dividing. It has again failed to make me believe in the notion of a rainbow nation. That idea that we are united in our diversity. More than ever I am convinced we are divided in our difference. The kind of difference that has seen bloodshed in this country's painful history.You see, this is the missed opportunity that some could have capitalised on this week by discussing identity politics and culture in South Africa. The reason why those young women at Pretoria Girls' High School fought so hard and took the approach they did is because they, we, constantly have to navigate living in this deeply divided country in a different way to our white counterparts. It's because people like myself sometimes find ourselves conflicted when we move in predominantly &quot;white&quot; or &quot;black&quot; spaces. You see, you never really fit in - you're constantly vacillating between one periphery and the other. This is exactly why I agree with many of those who have raised the fact that we have failed those children at Pretoria Girls and other institutions of learning. Race and class are linked in the most perverse ways in this country.I'm what many would deem &quot;a good black&quot;. The one whose accent is good enough, polished and the recipient of the occasional &quot;you speak so well&quot; comment. I followed the rules at school, my hair was relaxed, my musical taste varied and at some stage I used to find Leon Schuster funny (I know, it's shameful). This is, in a somewhat simplistic way, EXACTLY the reason why I failed young girls like Zulaika. I bought into the system, I embraced it and was probably complicit in it. It remained unchallenged and today they are now picking up the pieces.It's also the fact that we have neglected to talk about the intergenerational trauma meted out to these girls. It's the notion that the trauma once experienced by those older than you or the generation before you gets transferred to you. Black women have historically been the most oppressed. Whether it was from their white baas at work, or their husbands, who often took out their frustrations on their black wives because of the vile nature of the apartheid system. The generation of 1956 fought the first part of the battle, for freedom of movement. Our struggle is to deal with the right to have agency over own bodies. Black. Female. Bodies.To our mothers - we need your support. I am singling you out mothers because of your role in a young woman's perception of their image. I realised, after speaking to black mothers, that there is a generational element to how we have interpreted the politics of black hair. Some black mothers have been confused and can't understand the need to protest in schools because rules are there to be followed and a child's hair needs to be &quot;neat&quot;. This viewpoint screams of internalised oppression and to some degree I cannot blame them. This is how I have come to interpret Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga's remark about hair policies in schools not being the most controversial issue - and that teenage pregnancy is more urgent. With all due respect minister, this is more urgent than you think. Young people are, in my opinion, the best suited to deal with this.To our mothers - listen to us. Speak to us. Hear our cries. We are living through institutionalised racism in various kinds of spaces and are no longer willing to take it.The denial of your black identity during those oppressive years has left a vacuum for us, the next generation. We must now undo what has previously been accepted as &quot;normal&quot;. We want the forgotten freedoms you and our fathers were not afforded.It's precisely the neglect of these forgotten freedoms that has us facing so many ignorant white people. I can comfortably conclude that those who have been saying &quot;I know all about black hair because I have black friends&quot; are a huge part of the problem. You may or may not realise it but you are basing your beliefs on cultural stereotypes that are mostly based on misinformation. That's why you are getting it so horribly wrong. Commenting on my hair, when you aren't black and know nothing about its politics, is highly condescending and none of your business. Even beyond the politics, you don't know black girl hair problems. White people do not have the experience of sitting in a hair salon for seven hours for the &quot;over-the-top braids&quot; and &quot;showbiz hairstyles&quot;. Ask questions, don't impose. It's that simple. We are going to challenge misinformed notions about our identity at every corner as we navigate this new South Africa. If you are not willing to listen with the intention of understanding and trying to make a change, I anticipate high schools will not be the only places where we will see such eruptions.This, in my view, is how we have found ourselves in a situation where we are divided once again, with many of us pondering whether it is even possible to find common ground. As a university student I read reams of texts and theories about how white people for the longest of time (and probably to this day) can only identify themselves as white by contrasting against their opposites. Therefore, their complete identity has been dependent on &quot;othering&quot;. I believe this is the crux of why those young girls in Pretoria took it upon themselves to stand up. They no longer want to be benchmarked against their white peers - whether it's their hair, dress code or language. This is why, dear white people - old, young, female, male - you need to stay out of it. I don't think you should be upset that black women don't want your opinion on their hair. Many of us no longer care about Eurocentric standards of beauty and norms. We are embracing our melanin, now more than ever. We are embracing our kinky hair. We, black people, are concerned about ourselves and our identity more than ever. Notice how it is only black people speaking out against the hair issue. We no longer need white people to speak on our behalf, whether we are friends or not. We can do it perfectly well by ourselves.This is why playing victim infuriates me. They absolutely cannot believe they no longer speak over and about black people and their issues. More importantly, white people, maybe you need to think about your own identity in the &quot;new&quot; South Africa, one that will form one of the colours in the &quot;rainbow&quot; nation. Whites are now one group among many, one band within a rainbow. One that does not &quot;other&quot; another racial grouping. If you are truly committed to the so-called rainbow nation that you always harp on about whenever speaking about Madiba, unchain your own minds from the shackles of your ancestral racism because transformation is on its way, with or without your consent.Ziyanda Ngcobo is an Eyewitness News reporter based in Johannesburg. She is a Wits Honours graduate in international relations and politics. Follower her on Twitter: @ziyandangcobo