A summary of what you, our audience, made our most consumed content in 2016. JOHANNESBURG We have been watching you. The year 2016 has been filled with shockers, freak moments and some obvious but BIG stories.We at Eyewitness News closely watch what content our users like and consume so as to continuously adapt the way we do news, to enhance your experience on our website.Here is a summary of what you, our audience, made our top 10 most consumed content for the year to date. (Who knows what will happen before 31 December?)1. Tornado hits GautengOn Tuesday 26 July social media was abuzz with videos of a tornado which tore through parts of Tembisa along the R21, north east of the OR Tambo International Airport, and motorists reported severe hail. A video of a smaller tornado in the Magaliesburg area made the rounds the next day.#Tornado and hail spotted near the OR Tambo International Airport by Evan Baillie. KS pic.twitter.com/dm0WxMC2qxClick here for the full story2. President Zuma declares 27 December a public holidayEverybody loves a break - and when President Jacob Zuma announced that 27 December will be a public holiday, within no time the story became the top trending article on the site.The Federation of Unions of South Africa made the call as workers in the country would have had 11 public holidays instead of 12, as Christmas Day falls on a Sunday this year.Click here for the full story3. What Donald Trump really thinks about SAAfter he was elected US President in November, Donald Trump was reminded that the internet does not forget.Twitter files were pulled and South Africa was not spared from Trump's often controversial, off the cuff tweets. Click here for the full story4. SABC saddened by Rapulana Seiphemo s life-threatening accidentPopular actor Rapulana Seiphemo, who features in Generations: The Legacy, was involved in a serious car crash in which two people were killed and three others seriously injured.It was later reported that the two other people travelling Seiphemo s car were hijackers. The surviving passenger was reportedly under heavy police guard while recovering in a Johannesburg hospital.Click here for the full story5. Chaos as Zuma Must Fall billboard comes downSupporters of the African National Congress (ANC) were involved in a scuffle with a man who shouted derogatory remarks against President Jacob Zuma after the supporters accessed a building from which a Zuma Must Fall banner had been erected. They claimed the banner disrespected President Zuma. WATCH: Man assaulted during 'Zuma Must Fall' banner removalClick here for the full story6. Motorist kills smash-and-grab suspect in Cape TownA Cape Town man was shot and killed by a female motorist after the man allegedly tried to rob her during a smash-and-grab attempt on Jakes Gerwel Drive.The stretch of road is notorious for smash-and-grab incidents.Click here for the full story 7. [IN PICTURES] Floods, accidents and lightning strikes as storm hits GautengHeavy rains in Gauteng saw several car accidents, flooding on several roads and reports of lightning strikes.Flooding in Bedfordview at the Gillooly s Interchange Traffic brought traffic to a standstill with some vehicles left submerged.At least seven people, including three-year-old Evelyn Chauke, also known as Everlate, died during heavy rains which resulted in flooding in some parts of Gauteng in November.#JHBTraffic #Flooding #Linksfield Paramedics are on the scene of a flash flood on the N3 in Linksfield. pic.twitter.com/PiOH2lpt6wClick here for the full story8. First municipal election results inThere were cheers from the ground at the national results centre in Pretoria as the Independent Electoral Commission unveiled the first of its results from the local government elections on 3 August 2016.The excitement was mainly from the Democratic Alliance (DA) which took the lead the Great Kei municipality.The final results saw the DA take over three major metros from the ANC through coalitions. Click here for the full article9. [VIDEO] Tokai murder: Teen s parents plead for helpFlorian and Shireen Bl chliger launched an emotional video appeal for help to find their daughter Franziska s killers.WATCH: Tokai murder: Teen's parents plead for helpFour men have been arrested in connection with the kidnapping, rape and murder, after the 16-year-old s body was discovered in the Tokai Forest.Bl chliger was abducted and murdered while jogging earlier this year.The trial is ongoing.Click here for articles on the Franziska Bl chliger story10. Khwezi, who accused Zuma of rape, diesFezekile Ntsukela Kuzwayo, only known as Khwezi during the 2005-2006 rape trial against President Jacob Zuma, died in October. Kuzwayo died just weeks after four women staged a silent protest, brandishing placards which read Remember Khwezi , during President Zuma s speech at the IEC national results centre after local government elections.WATCH: Anti-Zuma Protest at IEC 2016 municipal elections announcementShe was laid to rest in a private funeral in her hometown of Durban, after she had been living in exile.Click here to read the full article