The acting police chief says allegations of corruption against him are simply efforts to tarnish his image &amp; undermine his integrity. PRETORIA Acting National Police Commissioner Khomotso Phahlane says continued allegations of corruption against him are simply efforts to tarnish his image and undermine his integrity. He was speaking in Pretoria on Thursday where he released a 2014 audit investigation which cleared him of numerous allegations, including tender corruption within the forensics division. The Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) first made the allegations in 2012, which led to suspended National Police Commissioner Riah Phiyega initiating the investigation, but she never released the report. These claims formed the basis for recent allegations that Phahlane funded the construction of his house in the north of Pretoria with kickbacks from corrupt dealings. Phahlane says all his accusers and relevant parties, including Popcru, where given copies of the audit report when it was concluded in 2014. Because they don t like the outcome of the investigation, they will continue making the allegations that they re making despite the fact that they know very well that they re baseless and unfounded. Phahlane says he considered the continued surfacing of the allegations as a personal attack. They re damaging allegations which can t be taken lightly and we ll initiate processes to deal with such. Phahlane says the chemicals tender and numerous other allegations were investigated and he was cleared. As made visible in this report, it is an allegation which was found to be not correct and unsubstantiated. The very same person who is running together with Paul O Sullivan, Colonel [Sandragasen] Moonsamy, was unable to substantiate his allegations. He says the allegations were made by three whistle-blowers. All three being Popcru members and serving in the forensic services division, they were also at the time under investigation in a disciplinary matter which had to be put on hold on a request of Popcru when their allegations were investigated. It s unclear why Phiyega did not release the report. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)