Mogoeng says it&#8217;s important for leaders not to mislead people and promise things that they cannot deliver. JOHANNESBURG Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng says the land issue in South Africa must not be used as a propaganda tool aimed at scoring political points with the people.He says this matter, among others like racism and xenophobia, must be dealt with by all South Africans black and white.The Chief Justice was speaking at Unisa School of Business Leadership award giving ceremony in Kayalami. Mogoeng says it s important for leaders not to mislead people and promise things that they cannot deliver. At an event attended by leaders such as EFF leader Julius Malema, the Chief Justice said approaching the land issue using the blame game will not prosper the country. People have been talking about land, just deal with this issue once and for all. What s the best way of addressing this issue? The blame game is never going to help. The Chief Justice says leaders should not compromise dealing with the serious issues for the sake of money and possessions.CLEAN GOVERNANCEMogoeng said clean good governance and a complete doing away of corruption for South Africa is nonnegotiable.He says South Africa needs to face these issues without comprise if there is to be a future for it.Mogoeng says leaders must not deviate from dealing with issues that affect people for the sake of self-interest.He says the kind of corruption South Africa is experiencing shocks him because there is enough for everyone. It s not negotiable that we need clean governance, that can t be negotiable. It s not negotiable that corruption that this country must never again be associated with corruption. WHITE PEOPLE MUST RETURN THE LANDLast month, Malema called on white people to return land to black people, saying while he is not calling for violence against them he can t guarantee what will happen in the future if the land is not returned.Malema addressed supporters outside the Bloemfontein Magistrates Court where he appeared on a charge of breaking the Riotous Assemblies Act after telling people to invade empty land.He made the remarks during the party s elective conference two years ago.After appearing in the Newcastle Magistrates Court, the EFF leader made this comment: We are not calling for the slaughter of white people, at least for now. Malema said he never said that white people must be slaughtered but that if he wanted to make a call along these lines he would have done it. We are not promoting violence, but I can t guarantee the future. I m not a prophet. I am talking now, we are not carrying weapons. He said his polite plea to white people is for them to return the land, saying if they don t he can t guarantee what will happen next. WATCH: Malema reiterates calls for occupation of land(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)