Baroka goalkeeper Oscarine Masuluke scored a wonder goal to secure his team a 1-1 draw against Orlando Pirates on Wednesday night. JOHANNESBURG - Baroka FC seem to be accomplishing extraordinary feats in local football, with the team s latest sensation grabbing international attention.In 2011, the Limpopo team, who were in the Vodacom league at the time, stunned Soweto giants Kaizer Chiefs, beating them 2-1 in the Nedbank Cup. They also beat Moroka Swallows on their run to the semi-final.And on Wednesday night, goalkeeper Oscarine Masuluke pulled off a truly stunning strike at the opposite end of the field to break the hearts of the Amakahosi s rivals Orlando Pirates in an Absa Premiership match.With his team 1-0 down, Masuluke did this Is this the best-ever goal scored in the PSL era? While the debate will rage on, we say give that man an Oscar for his performance.The shot stopper s brilliance has been receiving praise from media agencies and football fans across the globe.This keeper - Oscarine Masuluke - scored an injury time overhead kick equaliser in South Africa last night... He&#39;ll be world famous today. pic.twitter.com/qAiN5Ug7h7Goalkeeper to goalkeeper! The Baroka FC keeper showing that lousy one of Pirates how it should be done. https://t.co/X8D0AO0fC4AMAZING GOAL! Wonder if his whole career Masuluke&#39;s been waiting to unleash his own little celebration#BarokaFC https://t.co/B703PTO3SyYou will NEVER see a goal like this again! Keeper Oscarine Masuluke last gasp equalizer in South African PSL #bbcfootball pic.twitter.com/ioGIEIHwtmGreat goal by Oscarine Masuluke fam @Baroka_FC... Goal of The Season contender #AbsaPrem #BARPIRThere is already talk that Masuluke s strike should be in the running for next year s Puskas Award, FIFA s annual goal of the year award. If he is considered, the goalkeeper would be the third South African to be nominated for the award after Siphiwe Tshabalala in 2010 and Hlompho Kekana this year.MASULUKE RECEIVES DESERVED GLOBAL PRAISE FOR WONDER GOALMasuluke pulled off one of the greatest moves in world football, usually attempted by out-field players, to steal a draw for his Polokwane-based side in the dying seconds of their Premier Soccer League clash with Soweto giant Orlando Pirates.The Bucaneers failed to properly clear their lines, following a corner from Baroka and the keeper punished them in ridiculous acrobatic fashion.The 23-year-old has been receiving much deserved praise from local players, coaches and even international media and world-renowned football journalists.Videos of the goal have been shared thousands of times on social media, with many touting it as a contender for not only the PSL Goal of the Season, but even the FIFA Puskas Award for Goal of the Year.Masuluke s wonder strike comes a few weeks after Mamelodi Sundowns and Bafana Bafana midfielder Hlompho Kekana s super goal against Cameroon, in their Africa Cup of Nations qualifier was also nominated for the 2016 Puskas.(Edited by Refilwe Pitjeng)