The board says 10,871 learners received good enough results to enter some form of tertiary education. CAPE TOWN The Independent Examinations Board (IEB) says it is impressed with the 2016 matric results.The board says 10,871 learners received good enough results to enter some form of tertiary education.The board has reported an over 98% pass rate for 237 private schools, 26 more than last year.The IEB says the 2016 exams proceeded without any incidents that compromised the integrity of the process or credibility of the results.The board says it increased security using sophisticated technology to prevent dishonesty and a breach in examination security.The IEB has announced a 98,67% pass rate for 2016, a rise from 2015 s 98,30%.The board s Anne Oberholzer says the rise in irregularities prompted them to prioritise various mechanisms to protect exam papers. We ll certainly take precautions. We ve got an electronic locking system to keep these exam material secure trying to avoid leakages. But the key thing is the schools that we work with, there s a very deep understanding that teaching is not going to help you on the long run. Oberholzer adds that she is confident that the 171 learners who failed will pass next year with enough effort. For those who didn t make it, there s always next year. They would have had this year's experience and seen where they went wrong. If they didn t put enough study time, they left things until it was too late. They now understand the process and I m pretty sure next year they will be absolutely fine. Meanwhile Umalusi, the Council for Quality Assurance in General and Further Education and Training, says it is satisfied that a question paper leak in Limpopo has not affected other areas.The Hawks have been investigating the leak at a school outside Giyani.Umalusi CEO Mafu Rakometsi said there s been an increase in the number of progressed grade 12 pupils as opposed to last year. The class of 2016 includes 109,400 progressed learners. This is a substantial increase of 43,727 progressed learners from last year. To get your 2016 IEB matric results now go to EWN s special matric results page. Share the page with your friends.