The team of three has been selected to represent the university at the competition, which kicks off on Tuesday. JOHANNESBURG - A group of debaters from Wits University are hoping to raise up to R30,000 to enable them to participate in the World Universities Debating Championship in the Hague.The team of three were recently selected over twenty other groups to represent the university at the competition, which kicks off next Tuesday.With less than six days to go until the start of the event, the winners of the 2015 Pan African Debating Championships have so far managed to raise only half of the amount they need to get to the Hague.Team member and debating coach Jamie Mithi says, because of the funding difficulties, the university has been unable to attend the contest in two years. It s very difficult at a high level, at this time of the year considering the political environment that the universities are in, to get money to go to a debating competition. The university in the past has funded many of our debating trips but ever since #FeesMustFall, it s very difficult to get funding out of the university. I think the university is just in a cash-strapped environment. He explains the significance of having an all black African team possibly win the championship. I feel like there is a glass ceiling that exists right now with African thinking and African solutions in terms of young people having confidence in their own ideas, in their own thinking. He adds: For me, the validation of black intelligence is very important and that is one of the reasons I debate. I sometimes feel like young black people don t always speak up for their ideas because they haven t been raised in an environment where those ideas are permitted to be articulated and celebrated so for me, going on to platforms like this is to exhibit that look we can win debates against Harvard students, Yale, Oxford students. Speaking on the influence debate has on policy decisions, Mithi says there is a current breakdown in engagement. In our country right now there is a lot of challenges around discourse when we begin to talk about the land, banks, the mines, race. You sometimes see the conversation break down quickly and it isn t always solutions orientated At least six teams from the continent are expected to compete in the week long tournament including groups from Zimbabwe and Nigeria.