Deputy Defence Minister Kebby Maphatsoe says regardless of scandals they're linked to, they still have to be acknowledged. JOHANNESBURG - Deputy Defence Minister Kebby Maphatsoe will hand over special uMkhonto we Sizwe veteran awards to government officials, Hlaudi Motsoeneng, Dudu Myeni, Brian Molefe and Tom Moyane for transforming their respective industries.Maphatsoe says regardless of the scandals that these officials have been linked to, they still have to be acknowledged for their contribution towards bringing change in the country.African Union chair Dr Nkosasana Dlamini-Zuma as well as the people s poet Mzwakhe Mbuli are also among the veterans who will be celebrated.Maphatsoe says 31 military veterans will also receive awards for their services to the country. We don t want to get involved in these scandals, we are looking at the performance of the individual; the State of Capture report, there is nowhere where it implicated Brain Molefe in wrongdoing. HLAUDI MOTSOENENGIn the most recent scandal involving Motsoeneng, the parliamentary inquiry investigating the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) board heard how he allegedly tried to influence a deal for the Guptas to own a part of SABC s 24-hour news channel.This emerged when the public broadcaster s former acting CEO Phil Molefe made submissions to the ad hoc committee on Friday.Molefe spoke of an erosion of internal systems, governance and ethics which he says dates back to 2011.He told Members of Parliament (MPs) that in 2011 Motsoeneng approached him with a proposal in which the Gupta family would own a share of the 24-hour news channel.Molefe claims several meetings were held with Tony Gupta to discuss this and the distribution of the New Age newspaper to all SABC offices. He says he turned down the proposals. DUDU MYENIIn November, the South African Airways (SAA) chair rubbished claims that she consults with President Jacob Zuma before making business decisions.The question was posed by Members of Parliament (MPs) during a parliamentary committee meeting over the financial situation of the national carrier's financial situation.Myeni said she was pleased to share the airline s financial results that show a loss of R1.4 billion in the 2015/2016 financial year, a 74% improvement, compared to last year. She responded strongly to some of the accusations levelled against her during the question session. I never consult anyone, my CV talks to the experience. When I served at Absa Bank as a board member, I never asked the president. When I served at the DTI, its subsidiary in KZN, I don t ask anyone and I don t need anyone to recommend what I can do and what I can offer. Myeni asked for a list of names of people who are not allowed to do business with state owned entities. She also denied having any contact with the Gupta family, who are at the centre of the Public Protector s State of Capture report. I don t know them, I ve never interacted with them. I sit with people on the plane and if a person says I m a Gordhan , it means I must jump and say don t give me your business card because you re a Gordhan. If I sit with a Mandela, I must run away. Don t sit next to me, don t give me your company profile. BRIAN MOELFEIn November, the Democratic Alliance (DA) said it will lay criminal charges against the former Eskom CEO.Molefe was implicated in the State of Capture report, which was released in October.It found that he had made dozens of phone calls to the Gupta family while they were negotiating a deal that saw them taking over the Optimum Coal mine and receiving a huge pre-payment from Eskom.Molefe, however, said his resignation was not an admission of guilt. TOM MOYANEIn October, Sars commissioner Moyane denied he was in breach of any law when he didn't open a criminal case against official Jonas Makwakwa after evidence of suspicious transactions came to his attention.The Financial Intelligence Centre gave the Sars boss a report in May, which showed 75 transactions totalling more than R1 million in Makwakwa and his alleged girlfriend Kelly-Ann Elskie's bank accounts. Corruption Watch alleged Moyane was in breach of the Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act by not reporting the suspicious transaction in Makwakwa s bank account to the authorities.Moyane said at the time, he was advised by the Hawks in writing that there was no need to open a criminal case because the matter was already under investigation.He said he accepted the advice and has fully cooperated with their investigation. Also in October, Eyewitness News learnt that Moyane may face prosecution if it emerges he was issuing instructions for an employee to be held against his will.Several Hawks officials and Moyane's bodyguard were accused of holding Sars employee Vlok Symington hostage as they demanded he hand over a document apparently given to him in error.In a video recorded by Symington, Moyane's bodyguard can been seen talking on the phone while blocking the doorway.MUST WATCH: Hostage drama at Sars offices(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)