Hlaudi Motsoeneng says the SABC has to think about which documents it releases into the public as it might jeopardise its commercial interests. CAPE TOWN/ JOHANNESBURG - South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) head of corporate affairs Hlaudi Motsoeneng says the public broadcaster could risk its commercial interests if it releases certain documents to Parliament s ad hoc committee probing its board s fitness to hold office.Earlier on Wednesday Members of Parliament heard they won t be given 10 of the 15 documents requested.Motsoeneng says the majority of the SABC s revenue comes from commercial entities.He says the SABC therefore has to think about which documents it releases into the public as it might jeopardise its relationship with certain organisations it does business with.He has also stated SABC representatives walked out of the inquiry on Wednesday in support of board chairperson Mbuhaleni Maguvhe who is blind. #SABCinquiry Hlaudi Motsoeneng and rest of the SABC delegation walking out of committee proceedings. KB pic.twitter.com/CeEztNFMGCMaguvhe s legal representative Lucky Thekisho claims Maguvhe s constitutional rights were violated by committee members. Constitutional rights in terms of Section 9(3) of the Constitution is very clear in terms of the discrimination that appears to have happened on the grounds of his disability. Maguvhe says he felt belittled and disrespected.#SABC Briefing is finally starting. Prof Mbulaheni Maguvhe says they called briefing to discuss #SABCinquiry @MoniqueMortlock pic.twitter.com/U3PVF7IbsZMeanwhile, the African National Congress in Parliament has slammed the walkout of SABC as disgusting and shocking .ANC spokesperson Moloto Mothapo says the delegations behaviour is illegal. It is something that is unprecedented, unseen but it is also illegal if you look at the act that governs the conduct in Parliament. That particular act criminalises any conduct that disrupts the work of the institution. At the same time, the ad hoc committee is due to hold a briefing after the first full day of the inquiry. (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)