The boogeyman is real. He exists. And I saw him. I saw him stalk my children this past Saturday night as they innocently laughed and played on toys at the Melrose Arch shopping centre.My sons, together with another two of their closest little friends, were entertaining themselves on the games as we sat eating burgers at a restaurant. They were always in our view and we watched the entire time as they chased each other, joked and spoke animatedly. But what we couldn't see was a tall, burly man lurking and circling. He walked towards our children and took a quiet, dangerous stroll around them, purposefully staying out of our view.Then he started taking pictures. And then video. He pretended to take a selfie, and then to video himself (velfie?) but strategically positioned himself out of the shot. Instead, he took pictures and videos of four little boys between the ages of six and ten. All this while we were watching our children, thinking they were entirely safe.Another woman alerted us (she's a journalist whom I happen to know), and we quickly brought them all inside. The man didn't leave immediately and instead made a call while pacing in front of the restaurant talking incessantly and looking in our direction. There were too many ifs and maybes, so we didn't approach him as there was no security guard in sight. As it turns out the security guard on duty was assisting another woman who appeared from the video footage to lure him away from the area. Whether or not the woman and the stalker (for want of a better word as I don't actually know what to call him) knew each other or were working together I have no idea. The coincidence is simply too striking to ignore.The centre said what needed to be said, or rather what they probably thought I wanted to hear, promised to circulate the man's picture and look at increasing visible security. They ticked all the boxes, but the question is how safe are we really in shopping centres this Christmas?Last Friday, I stood in for Xolani Gwala on 702's afternoon drive show and interviewed Gauteng provincial police commissioner Lieutenant-General Deliwe de Lange.&quot;Commisioner,&quot; I said, &quot;there have been terrible incidents of crime at Gauteng shopping centres in recent weeks - can you guarantee that you can get the situation under control? Are we safe in shopping centres these holidays?&quot;&quot;Yes&quot; she said confidently, &quot;there's no need to panic... we have also deployed police officers who are not dressed in uniform and are working undercover. We are all over the malls and hotspots; I can safely say our malls are safe for now.&quot;Well commissioner, it appears we have a problem here because we are certainly not as safe as you would like us to think.Truth be told, this province hasn't been safe for years and one promise after the next by every commissioner before you ma'am has come to nought. Nought!The boogeyman exists and I saw him this past weekend.He was tall and well built and posed a genuine danger to my children. He, and others like him, are a danger to your children too. We don't know exactly who they are, what they want or what harm they'll inflict - so keep your little ones close, don't let them out of your sight and teach them to run to you and scream should someone strange start lurking and taking their picture.No shots were fired, no blood was shed, no brazen attacks on banks or ATMs took place in this northern suburbs shopping centre - instead the danger lurked silently, standing in the shadows and hiding behind a cellphone with a camera as his weapon.The potential threats against our children are very real. Believe them.Katy Katopodis is EWN's group editor-in-chief. You can follow her on Twitter.