Nehawu believes president Zuma has cost the African National Congress (ANC), accusing him of presiding over factions. JOHANNESBURG The National Health Education &amp; Allied Workers' Union (Nehawu) says if President Jacob Zuma doesn t step down the party might lose more votes in the 2019 elections. Nehawu held a briefing on Thursday, following its last central executive committee meeting of the year. It was the first union to call on the president to step down and while Congress of South African Trade Unions agreed on backing deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa as the next president it didn't take a formal position on the calls for Zuma to resign, saying it would raise the issue with the African National Congress (ANC).Nehawu believes Zuma has cost the ANC, accusing him of presiding over factions in the party and allowing the party to disintegrate. General-Secretary Bereng Soke says if the ANC wants to regain is supporters and win elections in 2019-zuma must bow out. It s time that he must do an honourable thing and resign as the president so that we can allow a process unifying the ANC towards 2019 so that we indeed overwhelmingly win the elections. The union says Zuma must make this sacrifice for the sake of unity in the ANC and they believe that Ramaphosa can unite the organisation, root out factionalism and lead the party to an overwhelming victory in the next general elections. Soke said: We maintain that the first way forward is for the ANC to develop a unifying roadmap towards the 54th National Conference and with Comrade Cyril Ramaphosa steering the transition to an overwhelming victory for the ANC in the 2019 national elections. He said if this happens all the problems facing the ANC would be resolved.The union believes the president is partly to blame for the factionalism and divisions in his party.Nehawu first deputy president Mike Shingane said: All we know is that there are many wrong things that have been done in the movement in his name. And our view is that that can t be done as the head of the organisation. At some point you need to step up and show leadership and if necessary tell the people not to do wrong things in your name. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)