Machel says poor families will not be turned away and the hospital must continue to reflect Madiba&#8217;s spirit. JOHANNESBURG Nelson Mandela s widow Graca Machel says all workers and staff at the newly launched children s hospital will be trained to understand the human touch and sensitivity needed for the facility.The centre was launched in Parktown yesterday and is one of four childcare facilities to exist on the continent.The private sector and citizens contributed toward the multi billion dollars raised towards the construction of the hospital.Machel says poor families will not be turned away and the hospital must continue to reflect Madiba s spirit of giving. It s about having an example of what every pediatric ward, every single staff working for children should achieve. Former deputy Chief Justice Dikgang Moseneke said, And this hospital is a reminder to all of us that it s place for hard work, it s a place for excellence, it s a place for honesty, it s a place for doing good and it s a place for giving and not taking. The children s hospital is available to all living in the Southern African Development Community region.Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi has promised to continue giving the hospital support. I want to stand here in front of you and tell you that you ve got that support and will get it forever. Machel said many fought against the construction of a children s hospital in his name, warning that it would be a facility for the elite.MACHEL THANKS MOTSOALEDIShe has thanked Health Minister Motsoaledi for making Madiba s lifelong dream come true. From the onset you ve been a champion of the children s hospital, we hope you will continue to mobilise your colleagues and that government to continue to support this initiative. Nelson Mandela Children s Trust chair Sibongile Mkhabela said the centre is a place for world class treatment.Motsoaledi said the newly launched Nelson Mandela s Children Hospital will not only provide care but also become a centre for ongoing training on illnesses that affect children.The children s hospital is one of four on the African continent that offers research, training and special procedures specifically for children.Motsoaledi said government will use the facility as a model. It s not only going to treat children but it s going to be very important for ongoing treatment of conditions that affect children as well as insure access to research, to assist to solve the health problems that are new to children, to increase childhood survival and decrease infant and child mortality. (Edited Leeto M Khoza)