The agency has kept its rating unchanged at BBB-, keeping the country above junk status. JOHANNESBURG Standard &amp; Poor s Global says South Africa needs to keep its growth above one percent to avoid a possible downgrade in the future. The agency has kept its rating unchanged at BBB-, keeping the country above junk status. The agency says it has lowered its long-term local currency rating on South Africa to BBB but has affirmed all other ratings.S&amp;P Global says it is concerned about slow economic growth. It says growth is measured at 0.5% for this year and 1.7% for next year.A number of other problems have also been cited including high political tensions.The agency s ratings Associate Director Gardener Rusike says the judiciary is playing a major role in curbing this problem. I think so far they ve kept in check that the judiciary is perhaps doing some of those checks and balances. Following months of campaigning, Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and business will be breathing a sigh of relief as the country has been given another chance to avoid junk status. POLITICAL TENSIONS &amp; SLOW GROWTHThe agency says political tensions and slow economic growth are still two of the major concerns facing the local economy.S&amp;P global says it will continue to assess the overall economic outlook with the next six months critical.Rusike says, We first put the negative outlook in the December 2015, so theoretically we can keep the negative outlook for up to 24 months but we ve to explain the rationale why we re keeping it. Rusike says debt is also a problem. That can be a big pressure point for the economic assessment as well as fiscal matrix which need deficits to come down as well as debt stabilising. The agency has also cited a number of other problems including political tensions but says higher growth is projected for next year.At the same time, Treasury has welcomed S&amp;P Global s decision to keep South Africa s rating unchanged.In a statement Treasury says all three rating agencies have retained South Africa at investment grade.Standard and Poor s has lowered its long-term local currency rating on South Africa to BBB but has affirmed all other ratings.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)