Google has put together its annual lists of top searches in South Africa. JOHANNESBURG The year 2016 has been quite a busy one. It s that year that kept saying, But wait, there is more .Google has put together its annual Year in Search with all the top searches in South Africa.This year's overall trending searches from the country have a global feel, whereas last year s top searches - which included 'loadshedding' and 'xenophobia' - had a distinctly local feel.The top trending overall searches are:1. Pokemon Go The augmented reality game that detects where you are in the real world by using your phone's GPS and makes the Pok mon appear in the actual game depending on your location.2. Euro 2016 Portugal won the European Championship for the first time ever and that sent soccer fans into a frenzy.3. Olympic Games Rio 2016 South Africans reached their target of 10 medals, which included Wayde van Niekerk s 400 metre gold medal in a world record time and Caster Semenya's convincing win in the women's 800m final.4. Donald Trump The world was never ready! People did not anticipate that new US president-elect Donald Trump would win the election.5. Election Results The ruling ANC were humbled by the main opposition, the DA, as it lost key metropolitan councils, including the City of Johannesburg, the City of Tshwane and the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro Municipality.6. Mandoza Kwaito star Mandoza s death sent shockwaves across the country with the industry saying they lost a legend.7. IEC The Independent Electoral Commission presided over the most hotly contested elections since 1994.8. Mall of Africa The opening of the biggest mall on the continent sparked a frenzy (as well as one helluva long traffic queue on the N1 highway in Midrand). 9. Caster Semenya Amid all the controversy around her gender Semenya finally clinched a gold medal at the Olympic Games - and left all the haters in her dust.10. US Elections 2016 Americans shocked the world by electing controversial businessman Donald Trump into presidency.But wait! There is more check out the other lists that Google has put together:Top trending South African athletes: 1. Caster Semenya 2. South African national cricket team 3. Sundowns FC 4. Hashim Amla 5. Kagiso Rabada 6. Mondli Cele 7. Bongani Zungu 8. Zamalek 9. Faf du Plessis 10. Wayde van Niekerk Top trending South African politicians and prominent figures: 1. Jacob Zuma 2. Public Protector 3. Gupta family 4. Thoko Didiza 5. Mcebo Dlamini 6. Pravin Gordhan 7. Sipho Pityana 8. Brian Molefe 9. Thuli Madonsela 10. Khwesi Top trending South African celebrities: 1. Mandoza 2. Gugu Zulu 3. Emtee 4. Babes Wodumo 5. Gareth Cliff 6. Nasty C 7. Rapulana Seiphemo 8. Nyembezi Kunene 9. Ayanda Mabulu 10. Duke Soul Top trending South African TV shows: 1. Cash Gang 2. Uzalo 3. Muvhango 4. Isibaya 5. Idols SA 6. Beintehaa 7. Bigg Boss 9 8. Skeem Saam 9. The Voice South Africa 10. Antara Nur Dan Dia