Umkhonto we Sizwe veteran Siphiwe Nyanda says they will not let the movement die without a fight. JOHANNESBURG Umkhonto we Sizwe veteran Siphiwe Nyanda said it is up to the African National (ANC) to arrest the decline of the movement before the 2019 elections or risk being punished at the polls.Nyanda was speaking at the beginning of the MK national council at Nasrec, south of Johannesburg.Earlier, military veterans association leader Kebby Maphatsoe and Des van Rooyen asked members not to participate in the gathering as it does not fall within the structures of the ANC.President Jacob Zuma, who is also an MK veteran, had given his blessing to the council but was not present due to prior commitments in KwaZulu-Natal.Nyanda said they will not let the movement die without a fight. And those pursue a path that will lead us in ruining, if they do, the ANC will surely die. But let it not be said that the ANC died without us trying to help. ANC veteran Joel Netshitenze agreed. If you do not correct these weaknesses that are there in the ANC, wait for 2019 and we ll punish you even more. The two Umkhonto we Sizwe veterans urged delegates here to ask critical questions about the state of the ANC, which they say may be dying a slow painful death.CONTINUED POLITICAL INFIGHTING HURTING ANCNetshitenze said the continued political interference at state institutions shows that those who are beneficiaries of state capture, and corruption will not give up without a fight.He said the municipal election results have proven that if the ANC does not resolve its internal issues it faces the possibility of further punishment at the national polls in 2019.The MK veteran saids if opportunists are given the platform, they will take advantage. From the strange things that are happening; from the South African Revenue Service involving the Hawks, the National Prosecuting Authority, Denel and so on, a cabinet statement by a cabinet minister that never was; all these terrors show you that the beneficiaries of corruption and state capture will not give up without a fight. At the same time, Nyanda said the beneficiaries of state capture are likely to try and subvert their efforts. We may well be ignored. Our efforts may well be frustrated by those who have an interest in preserving the status quo. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)