The DA has described it as a last ditch attempt by Maguvhe to cling on to power and avoid accountability. CAPE TOWN Political parties have welcomed the Western Cape High Court s decision to dismiss the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) board chairperson Mbulaheni Maguvhe s application to interdict a Parliamentary inquiry.Judge Siraj Desai yesterday struck down, with costs, Maguvhe s appeal for the court to set aside a subpoena to appear before the ad-hoc committee investigating the public broadcaster s board The Democratic Alliance has described it as a last ditch attempt by Maguvhe to cling on to power and avoid accountability. The IFP says the verdict is a victory for justice.The African National Congress s Vincent Smith, who s also ad-hoc committee chairperson, says he warned the case was frivolous. I feel vindicated. I think it was unnecessarily waste of four days, but of course everybody is entitled to access to justice. Lawyers for Maguvhe argued the ad-hoc committee would have been biased against their client because some Members of Parliament have expressed public views about the board.But Desai did not agree with their contention. I make the following order; the application is dismissed. The first applicant to pay the costs, reasons to follow at later stage. Advocate Denzil Potgieter for Parliament described Maguvhe s claim of partiality as a preemptive strike.He said his lawyers did not provide evidence to support this claim.Desai had described the board as non-functional and non-existent with Maguvhe as the last man standing .Smith said the application was a waste of time. I don t think they had a leg to stand on. I think it was an exercise of delaying and the arguments raised by the applicants didn t have anything of substance. Smith added he expects Maguvhe to abide by the court s ruling. I do expect the chair of the board and everybody who feels they might be adversely affected to be here to hear firsthand so they can t argue that they were spoken about in their absence. The inquiry is expected to kick off in Parliament sometime next week.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)