The minister says he&#8217;s not afraid of losing his ministerial job if it means he cannot air his concerns about the country. JOHANNESBURG South African Communist Party (SACP) General Secretary Blade Nzimande says he s not afraid of losing his ministerial job if it means he cannot air his concerns about the current political climate. Nzimande addressed the Young Communist League (YCL) at the weekend during its national council in Soweto. He held no punches, saying the African National Congress (ANC) should stop being in denial about this year s election results. Nzimande alluded that there may be some in government who are planning his demise using factions in the Fees Must Fall movement. If comrades will say that I no longer deserve to be minister of higher education and training, this is not a job for me, I m safe with my country. They must go to the relevant people who must make the relevant decisions, don t destroy our universities. He adds that those who seek self-interests in any political organisation are easily bought or bribed. No one is going to shut me up just because I m scared of losing my cabinet post. Nzimande says he believes the Fees Must Fall movement has been filled with the need for personal and political gains.FACTIONALISM HURTING ANCThe YCL says the continued growth in factionalism in the ANC and leaders who are only concerned about enriching themselves is a concern for it.The league s National Secretary Mluleki Dlelanga says factionalism is aimed at benefiting only some and does not have the interests of the revolution at heart.Dlelanga says corruption and gate keeping in the governing party has led to big business capturing the key leading figures.He says the fact that the revolution is being hijacked is evident in the amount of factionalism in the ANC. Look at what s been happening, for instance, that in each conference of the ANC there are two groups that will contest each other, in a very clumsy way of handling things and sometimes in a brutal way of handling things which results in splinter groups that form their own organisation. Dlelanga says a consultative conference to resolve the factionalism and corruption within the ANC could be the best chance the party has.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)