Officials have not said what organisation or group was responsible for the twin explosions. JOHANNESBURG At least 10 people have been detained in connection with the twin bomb blasts in the Turkish city of Istanbul. Nearly 30 people were killed when two bombs were set off outside a soccer stadium on Saturday night.First a car bomb exploded outside the Vodafone Arena, home to Istanbul's Besiktas soccer team, leaving flaming wreckage on the street. Forty-five seconds later, a suspect wearing explosives detonated them while surrounded by police in an adjacent park, Deputy Prime Minister Numan Kurtulmus told a news conference.Government has since released a statement saying it believes the attacks were target at the police because of the 29 dead, 27 of them were police officers.Officials, however, did not say what organisation or group was responsible for the explosions. It is thought to be a car bomb at a point where our special forces police were located, right after the match at the exit where Bursaspor [team] fans exited, after the fans had left, Turkey s Interior Minister S leyman Soylu said.President Tayyip Erdogan described the blasts as a terrorist attack on police and civilians. He said the aim of the bombings, two hours after the end of a match attended by thousands of people, had been to cause the maximum number of casualties. Nobody should doubt that with God's will, we as a country and a nation will overcome terror, terrorist organisations ... and the forces behind them, he said in a statement.The attack shook a soccer-mad nation still trying to recover from a series of deadly bombings this year in cities including Istanbul and the capital Ankara, some blamed on the Islamic State jihadist group and others claimed by Kurdish militants.There was no immediate claim of responsibility. But the blasts came less than a week after Islamic State urged its supporters to target Turkey's security, military, economic and media establishment . It was like hell. The flames went all the way up to the sky. I was drinking tea at the cafe next to the mosque, said Omer Yilmaz, who works as a cleaner at the nearby Dolmabahce mosque, directly across the road from the stadium. People ducked under the tables, women began crying. Football fans drinking tea at the cafe sought shelter, it was horrible, he told Reuters.Turkey is a member of the NATO military alliance and part of the US-led coalition against Islamic State. It launched a military incursion into Syria in August against the radical Islamist group. It is also fighting a Kurdish militant insurgency in its own southeast.