On so many levels it has probably been a year worth forgetting. At the time of writing, the war in Syria continues with even greater vengeance and lasting peace seems nigh impossible. US President-elect Donald Trump is bringing Wall Street to the White House and in Europe the threat of rising right-wing nationalism is causing jitters amongst the establishment. Britain s Theresa May looks all out of ideas when it comes to Brexit, China is threatening Trump about his departure from the One China policy while Vladimir Putin licks his lips. These are not times to be faint-hearted. Here in South Africa, we have had our fair share of that which we would rather forget. The year started off with the country still reeling from 9/12 and the firing of then Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene. In essence, the battle for National Treasury by Zuma and his merry band of corrupt cronies has marked 2016. The year seems to be going out with a bang not a whimper as the so-called #SABC8 give extraordinary testimony in Parliament. The layers are being peeled away and we can now see exactly how toxic the influence of President Zuma s key enforcer, Hlaudi Motsoeneng, has been. Of course while the details are all different, the story is from the same playbook and all leads back to Zuma and the Guptas in many cases. One of the most startling pieces of evidence by the #SABC8 was the alleged attempt at diverting funds to the Guptas to start a rival television station. Can there be any greater brazenness one might ask? Yet, the State of Capture report, which the president is so keen on avoiding accountability for, tells us everything we need to know about Zuma and his exploitation of public resources for his and his associates private gain. Yet, despite knowing all the sordid details, the country finds itself in limbo as regards Zuma. One part of the ANC is finding its voice, while another remains in Zuma s thrall. It is a paralysis that the country is paying for dearly. Much of this year has been dominated by the battle for National Treasury and Finance Minister Gordhan fighting for his job while the Hawks circle. That battle seems to have been won by Gordhan - for now. No doubt, 2017 will be even more fraught as attention turns to the ANC elective conference. Cyril Ramaphosa s head is slowly rising above the parapet but really he is going to have to be more robust if he is to stand a chance of succeeding Zuma. The Other Zuma , Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma seems in full defense mode in relation to her former husband and Ramaphosa has been put on notice. He seems to be trying to build a broad coalition of support and he will need to be every inch the negotiator and deal-maker if he really wants the Presidency and not to lose it to either Dlamini-Zuma or a compromise candidate. As the ANC slides further into organisational ineptitude and as it has consistently failed to face its internal challenges, especially after its bloody nose in the local government elections, society seems to be teetering on the brink. The #FeesMustFall movement laid bare the ANC government s inability to understand, let alone deal with the challenges of inequality. And one could go on and on about the litany of social and political issues facing South Africa. It s a tome. Yet somehow we have managed to survive another year of Zuma and his brand of scandal and a social compact fraying at the seams. For all its challenges and difficulties, it is ordinary South Africans who somehow keep doing the work of building democratic communities and spaces for expression and protest in diverse ways. The recent SaveSA movement is plugging away assiduously and calling for change. Our robust civil society organisations continue the call for accountability and openness in the face of secrecy and securitization. The courts have held firm, though we need to heed former Deputy Chief Justice Dikgang Moseneke s words when he says the courts cannot be our highest form of accountability . Indeed, it is not the job of the courts to solve what our politics cannot. Our media too has continued its fearless reporting on Zuma s corruption and excess and surely the SABC8 show us what courage in the face of persecution looks like? They deserve our support for their principled stand. So for every repugnant act of violence or thoughtless political statement, corruption and maladministration, there are South Africans everywhere making things work, creating, inventing and keeping our economy going. We are a Plan B sort of people after all. We probably need less of Plan B and more of the Master Plan but one senses that might be difficult to forge even in the year ahead as we brace for another fraught year. What awaits us in 2017? A toxic mix of the nuclear deal and the concomitant secrecy, ANC succession battles, the flailing economy and Treasury fighting the good fight, the State of Capture report which must be dealt with and the ANC benches in Parliament increasingly divided. Oh, and the 783 charges of fraud and corruption hanging over Zuma s head. Until then, a particular kind of peaceful silence will soon fall; that of holidaying politicians. As we try to pack it up for the year, one might say the silence comes not a moment too soon.Judith February, __who is based at the Institute for Security Studies, will be packing it up as well and this column will resume on 12 January 2016.