The move comes as Italy's third largest bank tries to avoid a government bailout. LONDON - Further fragility in the Italian banking industry has been highlighted by the country's biggest bank announcing ambitious plans to raise a huge sum of money to remove bad debts from its balance sheet.The move comes as Italy's third largest bank tries to avoid a government bailout.Some fear Italy will be forced to withdraw from the Eurozone or require huge bailouts, like Greece. Italy's largest bank, UniCredit, plans to raise 13 billion in the country's biggest-ever share issue to shore up its balance sheet and shield itself from a broader banking crisis.The plans announced on Tuesday also include 14,000 job cuts and more than 900 branch closures. They come at a turbulent time for Italian banks and the economy with Monte dei Paschi di Siena at risk of failure, a new government just installed in Rome and early elections expected next year.UniCredit, the only Italian bank deemed important to the stability of the global financial system, has lost about half its market value this year, hit by profitability concerns, bad loans and a weaker balance sheet than major European rivals.Chief Executive Jean Pierre Mustier said the bank planned to launch the share issue in the first quarter of 2017 and use the money to help mop up 17.7 billion worth of bad debts from its balance sheet, enabling it to boost its profits and also dividend payouts by 2019. Drafted in five months ago, the former Societe Generaleexecutive has sought to streamline the bank, selling assets like fund manager Pioneer and Polish unit Bank Pekao.&quot;We've taken some bold actions because self-help is always the best thing to do,&quot; the 55-year-old told analysts in a call.Joseph Oughourlian, CEO at UniCredit shareholder Amber Capital, said he was a firm believer in Mustier.&quot;Sorting out UniCredit is huge service and a plus for the Italian banking sector. We now have the two largest banks in Italy well-capitalised,&quot; he said. Italy's other major bank is Intesa Sanpaolo.The issue would take the bank's core capital ratio to above 12.5 percent in 2019, from about 10.8 percent now, though UniCredit envisages deep job cuts. It plans to shed 14,000 jobs, or about 11% of its staff as of end-2015. Including announced asset sales, the bank will have a third less staff by 2019, compared with the end of last year, as a result of its turnaround plan. It also plans to close 944 branches in its core areas of Italy, Germany and Austria by 2019.Mustier pledged to cut his fixed salary by 40 percent to 1.2 million with no annual bonus this year or during the plan to 2019. Additional reporting by Reuters(Edited by Shimoney Regter)