The students were barred from campus for participating in demonstrations last year. CAPE TOWN - Twelve suspended Stellenbosch University students have embarked on a hunger strike to compel university management to address their demands. The students were barred from campus for participating in demonstrations last year. Against the backdrop of demonstrators chanting and singing, the 12 suspended students are sitting outside the education faculty where they have embarked on a hunger strike.  The group known as the "Stellies12" says calls to meet with university management have been ignored. Fourth year political science student Jodi Williams believes due process was not followed in their suspensions. A short distance away, protesters continue a standoff with police. They want three fellow demonstrators released from police custody. 'ACADEMIC PROGRAM TO CONTINUE DESPITE CLASHES' Meanwhile, university management maintains its academic program will continue despite clashes between protesters, police and security. The university says some classes were disrupted when protesting students barged into lecture halls.  A heavy police and private security presence has also persisted to monitor campus unrest. During what seems to be a lull in protests on the Stellenbosch campus, students are casually spread out in pockets along Van Ryneveld Road. There are several police vehicles here, including a Nyala. University spokesperson Martin Viljoen says the police presence and increased private security will remain in place to ensure the university completes its academic program. "It's not something we want in our campus; the issue today is that we remain committed to the continuation of our program up to the last day of our academic program for the year." Viljoen has also dismissed allegations by some protesters and suspended students that management has been reluctant to engage them. UCT EXTENDS SHUT DOWN Meanwhile, the University of Cape Town (UCT) has announced it will remain shut tomorrow. UCT spokesperson Elijah Moholola discussions are continuing about the best way forward. "The executive of UCT has decided that the suspension of classes as well as the closure of all campuses should be extended to include Tuesday, 11 October."