The centre says the decision shows little regard for victims of genocide &amp; crimes against humanity. JOHANNESBURG - The Southern Africa Litigation Centre (SALC) says South Africa's decision to withdraw from the International Criminal Court (ICC) shows little regard for victims of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. Government confirmed today that its notified the United Nations Security Council and will soon initiate Parliamentary processes to repeal South Africas participation in the Rome Statute. It was the SALC which brought the application in June last year to compel government to arrest Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir when he attended the African Union summit. Government, however, believes its commitment to the ICC undermines its efforts at negotiating peace. The SALCs Kaajal Ramjathan-Keogh says South Africas decision is hugely disappointing, but it doesnt mean the country can welcome the likes of Al-Bashir back just yet. Well need to study the governments decision before we formulate a full and detailed response, but there may still be obligations on the state outside of the Rome Statute. Wits University Professor of International Relations John Stremlau says this is a significant blow to the countrys standing. Seems like South Africa is racing to the bottom now. It likes to be identified with a more regressive forces on the continent, when there was a time not so long ago that South Africa was with the most progressive and democratic forces on the continent. Government says it remains committed to upholding human rights. Meanwhile, the United Nations has confirmed receipt of South Africas withdrawal from the ICC. UN spokesperson Stephane Dujarric says the withdrawal document is being processed, and will take effect on 19 October 2017. Ramjathan-Keogh says the withdrawal means there is no other mechanism for African war criminals to face justice. She says while the AU has adopted the Malabo Protocol of the African Court of Justice and Human Rights, it cannot be enforced. At the moment its only a protocol, its not enforced. Theres no court, no judges behind it and no money, so it would be years before we can see something similar to what the ICC provides for us.