Student leaders say they will take a step back from their protests as they fear arrest. JOHANNESBURG Wits University student leaders say they have decided to take a step back with their protest, saying they have received information that police want to arrest them. The students held a meeting a short while ago and have now started dispersing. They attempted to arrest Vuyani Pambo, we managed to negotiate with them for his release. But weve been told they will be coming back for him, so well be taking a step back to ensure that our comrade is safe. #Fees2017 #Wits Student Leader was taken by police earlier. Now released. CM pic.twitter.com/kElwzZ8Wj1&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 20, 2016 #Fees2017 #Wits Student Leader was taken by police earlier. Now released. CM pic.twitter.com/kElwzZ8Wj1 Earlier police used rubber bullets to disperse a crowd who wanted to gain access into the hall, with student leaders hit a number of times by rubber bullets. Shaeera Kalla and Busisiwe Seabehave been taken to hospital. Students took their protest to the streets of Braamfontein, and are now back on campus. #Fees2017 #Wits students make their way back onto campus. TH pic.twitter.com/2jAJQsFKcQ&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 20, 2016 #Fees2017 #Wits students make their way back onto campus. TH pic.twitter.com/2jAJQsFKcQ Some students say they want to march around the campus and mobilise non-protesting students to join them, while others want to postpone their meeting to later today to discuss a plan for tomorrow. Pambo says students were attacked earlier when they tried to enter the Great Hall. We wanted to enter Solomon Mahlangu House, but police reacted the way they did. They wanted to shoot us, so we decide to march around campus and organise ourselves. Police officers are on high alert with about four police Nyalas situated at the Great Hall. Non-protesting students are going about their business. Meanwhile, the group of students, who demonstrated earlier at the Union Buildings, has now moved to the Pretoria Art Museum Park where theyre meeting. Police set off stun grenades this afternoon to disperse the group, which had tried to force open a locked gate at the seat of government. #FeesMustFall Students now singing on the lawns in front of the Union Buildings. CE pic.twitter.com/TBSG5hHU3n&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 20, 2016 #FeesMustFall Students now singing on the lawns in front of the Union Buildings. CE pic.twitter.com/TBSG5hHU3n Theyve been no further incidents since the earlier deployment of stun grenades, which pushed back people who were trying to force their way into the main Union Buildings precinct. WATCH: Police fire stun grenades at students at Union Buildings The students are demanding that the government provide free education and that the police be removed from university campuses. While the authorities are keeping their distance, they are out in their numbers and are keeping a close eye on the group.