Members were quick to ask about Pravin Gordhan but Jacob Zuma said legal process should be respected. JOHANNESBURG - President Jacob Zuma today faced a barrage of questionsranging from the Public Protector's report onstate capture to charges facing Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. He had been addressing the National Council of Provinces (NCOP) where members deviated from the list of questions on the set agenda. Members were quick to ask aboutthe Finance Minister but the President replied that the legal process should be respected. The minister has not been found guilty of any crime and he is innocent until found guilty. NCOP members then turned to the state capture report, asking why the President had requested an interdict. Hesaid, I interdicted it because she was going to issue a report having not talked to me or ask me questions. In is within my right, in fact it is within the Public Protector Act, that those who are to be questioned, have a right to do what Ive done. Turning to state-owned entities, Zuma defended the re-appointment of South African AirwaysChairperson Dudu Myeni, saying the new board had been appointed for a reason. The appointment of this board in particular paid attention to specific specialties and skills of members. The Fees Must Fall movement was also discussed, with the President saying government is attending to the issue. He called on students and protesters not to simply demand butto negotiate. You can also say: this is the demand I make and I will not stop until it is met. In life you negotiate, give and take and you consider many things. Questions were also raised about the possibility of Parliament being moved to Pretoria; President Zuma said a decision still needed to be taken. The space here is not enough and its just one point Im aware of. They would want sufficient space; at the moment they would have to useother places because the space is not enough. Before proceedings started, Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) members were removed from the House, with one member shouting at the President This man sitting there is a murderer and a thief. Im not taking any seat because this man is a thief and a murderer. #ZumaQandA EFF&#39;s Mokwele being escorted to the party&#39;s offices in the Marks Building . KB pic.twitter.com/9UxuANLtlc&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 25, 2016 #ZumaQandA EFF&#39;s Mokwele being escorted to the party&#39;s offices in the Marks Building . KB pic.twitter.com/9UxuANLtlc