ANC MPs questioned Busisiwe Mkhwebane on the reports credibility, which Thuli Madonsela compiled. JOHANNESBURG - Former Public ProtectorThuli Madonsela says it wasunfairfor Parliamentto ask her successorBusisiwe Mkhwebane to answer questions about consultations for the state capture report. Yesterday, African National Congress Members of Parliament (MPs) questioned Mkhwebane onthe reports credibility aftershe revealedconsultants were involved in compiling it. She told Parliament that PricewaterhouseCoopers was involved in compilingthe report. Madonsela says she was supposed to answer questions around how the report was compiledand not Mkhwebane. Firstly it was unfair on her to be expected to defend someone elses report because the Public Protector Act is very clear that we are talking about he or she and the Constitution is very clear that we are talking about he or she. Therefore, it is expected that someone who did something, account. STATE CAPTURE REPORT The new Public Protector says the state capture reportwill be made public if the court orders this. Arguments in the bid by President Jacob Zuma and Cooperative Governance Minister Des van Rooyen to block its release is set to be heard in the North Gauteng High Court on 1 November. Mkhwebanes told Parliaments justice committee shell be filing a responding affidavit in the matter tomorrow. Busisiwe Mkhwebane says the state capture report is under lock and key and that it will not be released to anyone until the court proceedings are finalised. But she indicated after the meeting it could still see the light of day. The report is finalised, so if the court says we publish the report, the normal process will be followed. African National Congress Members of Parliament are already questioning the reports credibility after Mkhwebane revealed that consultants were involved in compiling it. The Democratic Alliance says its entitled to a copy as it is the complainant in the matter. Mkhwebane, who says she herself has not read the report, says it will remain under wraps because the matter is sub judice. So I cannot commit to say tomorrow the report is released, because the court said it should be kept safe.