The company is investigating five of 72 transactions reported to authorities as suspicious. JOHANNESBURG - South Africa's Oakbay Resources and Energy Ltd, a company controlled by businessmen close to President Jacob Zuma, is investigating five of 72 transactions reported to authorities as suspicious. Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan revealed in a court affidavit on Friday that transactions worth R6,8 billion made by the wealthy Gupta family and companies they control have been reported to the Financial Intelligence Centre, a government anti money laundering agency. Meanwhile, a lawyer for the Guptas says he will force the banks to disclose the reasons behind their decision to close the family's business accounts. Gordhan is seeking a declaratory order to show that he cannot intervene in the Guptas' dispute with the four major banks. Attorney Gert van der Merwe says there was nothing suspicious about the transactions. &ldquo;As I sit here today, the banks have not disclosed the reasons for closing the accounts. I will force them to do that because the accounts are closed and I don&rsquo;t know why I can&rsquo;t do business and I have those reasons. I am going to file an affidavit because the application launched on Friday creates the impression that there&rsquo;s dubious payments, which is undiluted nonsense.&rdquo; To read the court papers filed by Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, click here. Additional reporting by Reuters. &nbsp; JOHANNESBURG - South Africa's Oakbay Resources and Energy Ltd, a company controlled by businessmen close to President Jacob Zuma, is investigating five of 72 transactions reported to authorities as suspicious.Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan revealed in a court affidavit on Friday that transactions worth R6,8 billion made by the wealthy Gupta family and companies they control have been reported to the Financial Intelligence Centre, a government anti money laundering agency.Meanwhile, a lawyer for the Guptas says he will force the banks to disclose the reasons behind their decision to close the family's business accounts. Gordhan is seeking a declaratory order to show that he cannot intervene in the Guptas' dispute with the four major banks. Attorney Gert van der Merwe says there was nothing suspicious about the transactions.&ldquo;As I sit here today, the banks have not disclosed the reasons for closing the accounts. I will force them to do that because the accounts are closed and I don&rsquo;t know why I can&rsquo;t do business and I have those reasons. I am going to file an affidavit because the application launched on Friday creates the impression that there&rsquo;s dubious payments, which is undiluted nonsense.&rdquo; To read the court papers filed by Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, click here.Additional reporting by Reuters. &nbsp;