Katy Perry, who is dating Orlando Bloom, has hinted she is ready to have children. The Dark Horse singer - who was previously married to Russell Brand and has been dating Orlando Bloom for over a year - admitted kids are becoming a "big focus" for her as she discussed her passion for helping sick youngsters by bringing music therapy programmes to her. Speaking at the Children's Hospital Los Angeles' 'Once Upon a Time Gala' on Saturday, she told E! News: "I see the amazing thing of birth and children and the vulnerability and we just have to take care of them and how, how big of an impression we have. We have such a responsibility!" "Children to me are becoming a big focus. I don't even have mine but I see it in my sister's kids and just how much nurturing and love they need..." Last month, the 31-year-old beauty helped deliver her sister Angela Hudson's second child - and still found the time to work on new music later in the day. She tweeted: "Helped deliver my sister's baby at 2pm - 7am in the studio by 8pm. GET A GIRL THAT CAN DO BOTH (sic)" And this wasn't first time that the Firework musician has tried her hand at midwifery, as she also helped deliver Angela's first child when she had a home birth back in 2014. She expressed her excitement over Twitter at the time saying: "Finally you can add "helps delivers babies in living rooms" to my resume! It's been a miracle of a day ... Auntie Katy aka Stylist Auntie (sic)" Recalling the experience in a later interview, she shared: "My sister gave birth in her living room and I got to be kind of like an assistant doula, which, in a home birth, is kind of just there for support." "I was in it! I mean I was holding ... I probably shouldn't give too many details, but my sister actually is a true rock star. She gave birth in her living room without a single Advil!" An insider previously claimed Katy would be ready to have children once she found the right man, and it seems Orlando - who has a five-year-old son, Flynn, from his marriage to Miranda Kerr - could be. A source said recently: "[Marriage and children] is something Katy has always wanted when she met the man she was ready to settle down with."