Pravin Gordhan and two former Sars officials Oupa Magashula and Ivan Pillay were set to appear in court this week on fraud charges. PRETORIA - National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) head Shaun Abrahams has announced the withdrawal of fraud charges against Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and two former South African Revenue Service (Sars) officials Oupa Magashula and Ivan Pillay.The three men were set to appear in court this week in connection with fraud charges relating to the early retirement and re-employment of Pillay.Abrahams says after considering representations he found Gordhan, Pillay and Magashula lacked the requisite intention to act unlawfully.&quot;I am of the view that this matter could easily have been clarified had there been proper engagement and co-operation between the Hawks, Mr Magashula, Mr Pillay and Minister Gordhan.&quot;His announcement of the withdrawal of the charges, as well as the summons, means the three do not have to appear in court on Wednesday.Abrahams says he considered a 2009 memo from a Sars legal executive which found that there was no technical reasons why Pillay could not retire early and be re-appointed.The advocate also considered an opinion from the then acting director general of the Department of Public Works and Administration.Abrahams concluded that it appeared Magashula and Gordhan were unsure about whether Pillay s early retirement could be approved.He has, however, defended the initial decision to prosecute, saying on the facts there was a case to answer to. NDPP Shaun Abrahams letter to lawyers confirming charges withdrawn against Pillay, Magashula and Gordhan. pic.twitter.com/QIujQpFSn9&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 31, 2016 NDPP Shaun Abrahams letter to lawyers confirming charges withdrawn against Pillay, Magashula and Gordhan. pic.twitter.com/QIujQpFSn9 #NPA #Abrahams gives his reasons why state are withdrawing charges against, amongst others, Pravin Gordhan. @ray_toerien pic.twitter.com/V1ynNcARPR&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 31, 2016 #NPA #Abrahams gives his reasons why state are withdrawing charges against, amongst others, Pravin Gordhan. @ray_toerien pic.twitter.com/V1ynNcARPR #NPA Abrahams: reviewing decisions is a daily occurrence in the NPA. Accused persons submit reviews every day. BB&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 31, 2016 #NPA Abrahams: reviewing decisions is a daily occurrence in the NPA. Accused persons submit reviews every day. BB #NPA Abrahams: since my appointment I have reviewed many decisions, as well as agreed with many decision. BB&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 31, 2016 #NPA Abrahams: since my appointment I have reviewed many decisions, as well as agreed with many decision. BB The decision to charge Gordhan was met with uproar from civil society and some government members who pledged their support for the finance minister.Legal experts who have studied the evidence said there was simply no case and that the decision was politically motivated.