A short while ago, police set off a fresh round of stun grenades to disperse protesting students. JOHANNESBURG - Student leaders are calling on protesting Wits University students to re-group at a local church after violent protests in Braamfontein in which a bus has been torched, a priest has been injured and traffic has been disrupted. A short while ago, police set off a fresh round of stun grenades to disperse protesting students who were pelting stones at a police Nyala. Demonstrators have been locked in running battles with officers since about midday and students claim they're not being allowed to return to campus. Protesting students are now singing struggle songs and most of the streets in Braamfontein are barricaded with rocks and burning tyres.   Some of the students say they don't want to go back to campus because they received information that once they arrive there, police officers would arrest them. One of the Catholic priests at the Holy Trinity Church just outside Wits University had initially opened the doors of the church to the protesting students to hide when police were making the rounds in a Nyala and firing rubber bullets. He walked towards one of the police vehicles that was firing rubber bullets and was injured. Wits University management have not made any statements about when classes are expected to resume.   CONDEMNATION Meanwhile, Higher Education Minister Blade Nzimande has condemned clashes between police and Wits University students, saying those who want to continue with the academic programme should not be stopped from doing so. Nzimande says he's disturbed by the events which have played out at the university this afternoon by what he calls a few "irresponsible and disrespectful" striking students. He has urged university management and other stakeholders to do everything in their power to salvage the academic programme. Nzimande's spokesperson Harold Maloka said, "The minister believes this is a critical time for the academic programme to continue and for the students to conclude their year and write examination. Therefore, he condemns the actions of the striking students in the strongest possible terms." MORE COPS DEPLOYED At the same time, additional police officers have been deployed to try and disperse groups of students who are barricading roads, turning cars away and attempting to damage and loot some shops. People living on the streets and other non-students have now joined the demonstration by some Wits University students. Protesting Wits students have been joined by people living on the streets and the group attempted to smash one of the shops window with the intention to loot. More officers and Nyalas have been brought in and private security dressed in black has also just arrived but it's unclear if they are there to assist the police. Student residences and businesses in the area have since closed their doors."