Gordhan delivered the keynote address at the Gauteng governments open tender seminar in Midrand today. JOHANNESBURG - Gauteng Premier David Makhura has told Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan that he still believes in his leadership despite the issuing of a summons for him. Gordhan delivered the keynote address at the Gauteng governments open tender seminar in Midrand today. The Gauteng government says it knows that Gordhan is an ethical leader. While Gordhan spoke to delegates about the importance of fighting fraud and corruption news of his own fraud charges had already filtered through the room. Despite a summons being issued for him Gordhan proceeded with his participation at the Gauteng governments open tender seminar in Midrand. Guests at the Gallagher Estate stood and cheered to encourage and thank the Finance Minister for speaking just moments after hearing about criminal action being taken against him. Earlier this year, Gordhan rejected a request by the hawks to give a statement on his role in the establishment of a covert unit at South African Revenue Services (Sars). After unsuccessfully attempting to convince the National Prosecuting Authority to charge Gordhan, it appeared the Hawks would have to put an end to their investigations. Now Gordhan and two former Sars officials face charges. The minister has been listed as accused number one. It's believed the charge of fraud relates to the pay-out made by Sars to Pillay when he took early retirement. Abrahams says the formation of the unit was simply against the South African Constitution. "No other conclusion can be deduced other than the fact that the creation of the Sars high-risk investigation unit was built in conflict with and violation of the legal mandate of Sars in terms of the Sars Act, the National Strategic Intelligence Act and Chapter 11 of our Constitution." Abrahams also quoted a part of the Constitution, regarding the president being the only person who can form an intelligence service. "Section 209 of the Constitution enjoins, and I wish to emphasise this, the president of the Republic as head of the National Executive as the only one who may establish an intelligence service, other than any intelligence division by the SA Defence Force of police service. The president may, however, only exercise such power in terms of national legislation." Reuters is reporting that the finance minister said the summons was hand delivered to his house by a brigadier, but that he was not home at the time. Gordhan said he will appear in court on 2 November, adding his lawyers will issue a statement in a short while. RAND At 10am, the rand was trading at R17,11 to the British pound, R13,91 to the US dollar and R15,49 to the euro. By 10:20am, it was trading at R17,49 to the pound, R14,23 to the dollar and R15,82 to the euro. GORDHAN ON INVESTIGATION Last week, Gordhan told Bloomberg TV in New York the Hawks' investigation into him was no more than a bit of political mischief. Gordhan said the investigation into him would be resolved and it was just a bit of political mischief that all countries have from time to time.