A source told E! News Rihanna and Drake are seeing other people at the moment. LOS ANGELES - Rihanna and Drake have reportedly ended their relationship, but friends wouldn't be surprised if they get back together. The Hotline Bling singer and the Work hitmaker only went public with their romance in the summer following months of speculation, but they have decided not to be "exclusive" any more, though friends wouldn't be surprised if that changes again in the future. A source told E! News, "Rihanna and Drake are seeing other people at the moment. They are not exclusive anymore. They still love each other, but their schedules have gotten in the way. "Anything can change between them though, for better or worse. They are still in each other's lives." However, Drake, 29, has seemingly already moved on and has begun dating model India Love. A source said, "Drake and India Love have been hooking up for at least a few weeks." However, insiders admit there might be more to the new romance than meets the eye as India's ex-boyfriend, Cliff Dixon, was rumoured to have cheated on her with Rihanna. The source said, "Drake could be hooking up with India Love now to p**s off Rihanna, which has clearly worked." If they have ended their relationship, Drake and Rihanna will still have a permanent reminder of their romance as they recently had matching shark tattoos. The etchings were inspired by a date they went on to a Toronto aquarium, where the 'One Dance' singer bought his girlfriend a toy shark as a memento. The 'We Found Love' singer's usual tattoo artist Keith 'Bang Bang' McCurdy etched the couple with their new inkings, and shared a picture of Rihanna's artwork on Instagram. He wrote, "Camo shark for my dear friend @badgalriri. Also... I just found out you can zoom on IG- enjoy :).(sic)" At the MTV Video Music Awards (VMAs) at Madison Square Garden in New York in August, Drake admitted he had been "in love" with Rihanna for years. Presenting the 'S&M' hitmaker with the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award, he said of the brunette beauty, "She's someone I've been in love with since I was 22 years old. She's one of my best friends in the world. All my adult life, I've looked up to her, even though she's younger than me. She's a living, breathing legend in our industry, ladies and gentleman, the recipient of the Michael Jackson Vanguard Award for 2016, Rihanna."