Nine people were arrested and several students left injured following clashes in the area. JOHANNESBURG - Police are establishing whether a group arrested during unrest at Wits University and its surrounding Braamfontein area overnight are students before they appear in court on Monday.  Nine people were arrested and several students left injured after attempted arson attacks on four university buildings. Several cars were damaged and businesses vandalised.  The police's Sally de Beers says: "We are busy processing those people who were arrested to determine whether they were students or residents in the area, who took advantage of the situation." At the same time, management at the institution says despite the ongoing Fees Must Fall protests and a heavy police presence on campus, student lecture attendance has increased each day. "The only reason we have this degree of stability is because we have private security and police, this is not what a university should be doing," vice-chancellor Adam Habib said.  Meanwhile, the University of the Free State has implemented a two-week shutdown in order to rework its academic calendar following disruptive student protests. The institution's Bloemfontein and south campuses will remain closed until 28 October. Those living in residences have been requested to vacate the premises by midday on Saturday. The university says it supports calls for free education for the poor and missing middle, and is willing to stand with students as they remind government of the urgency of the matter. Management says it will also be meeting with Universities South Africa to coordinate a plan of action to call on government to increase its efforts. In Tshwane, protesting students at the Tshwane University of Technology say they will continue to protest until their demands are met, despite management's insistence that the academic programme should continue Yesterday students, along with students from other higher learning institutions in Tshwane, marched to the Chamber of Mines in Johannesburg to demand funding for free tertiary education.