The opposition coalition says Maduro must go before the current recession in the country worsens. CARACAS - Venezuela's opposition was to hold nationwide rallies on Wednesday against unpopular socialist President Nicolas Maduro, whom they accuse of morphing into a dictator by preventing a plebiscite to remove him. The oil-rich South American country is in the throes of a crippling recession that has many poor families skipping meals or surviving on starches amid scarce food and triple-digit inflation. The opposition coalition says Maduro must go before the situation worsens, but Venezuela's electoral authorities last week cancelled a planned signature drive to hold a recall referendum against him, citing fraud. An outraged opposition said Maduro, a former bus driver and union leader, had crossed the line. It held a march led by women dressed in white on Saturday, launched a political trial against him in Congress on Tuesday, and was planning marches called the &quot;Takeover of Venezuela&quot; on Wednesday. &quot;We're going to hit the street early with a clear and different message, because there's been a coup here,&quot; said opposition leader and two-time presidential candidate Henrique Capriles. &quot;Venezuela is in a dangerous situation.&quot; With malaise rife in Venezuela's lines-filled streets, many fear that blocking an electoral solution to the crisis will fan social unrest. &quot;THE REVOLUTION WILL CONTINUE!&quot; Maduro, elected to replace late leader Hugo Chavez after his death three years ago, counters it is in fact the opposition vying for a coup beneath the veneer of peaceful protests. &quot;Some want to see Venezuela full of violence and divided,&quot; a red-shirted Maduro told cheering supporters at a rally on Tuesday, where he vowed to stand firm. &quot;They won't return! The revolution will continue!&quot; he said, pumping his fist. Opposition protests two years ago led to 43 deaths, including security officials and both government and opposition supporters. As a result, some Venezuelans are wary of demonstrations or see them as futile. And Venezuela's poor have to prioritize the all-consuming task of finding affordable food, while many remain sceptical of the opposition, which has a reputation for elitism and whose internal squabbles have for years been a boon for &quot;Chavismo.&quot; Still, the opposition estimates 1 million anti-government protesters flooded Caracas early last month in the biggest demonstration for over a decade. In an echo of September's demonstration, many stores in capital Caracas were set to remain shut while some parents planned to keep their kids at home on Wednesday. &quot;We need change and we need to achieve it by taking to the streets to tell the government we're sick of so much misery,&quot; said Licis Perez, a 48-year-old beautician in Caracas.