Two suspected members of the OVL gang were killed and their bodies were left near the railway line. JOHANNESBURG - The father of one of the suspected gangsters who was murdered, allegedly by community members in Etwatwa, has told Eyewitness News hes been left shocked and distraught. On Monday, two suspected members of the OVL gang were killed and their bodies were left near the railway line. Police have since arrested 53 members of the community, who are believed to have attacked the pair along with others. Norman Sibeko says he was at home on Monday when a mob suddenly descended on his house looking for his son. He says when they didnt find him at home, they tracked him down at a friends house, and killed him. By the time I arrived at the friends house, he was dead. A sobbing Sibeko says he remembers seeing his son lying there like a dog. I know I wouldnt have been able to help him, but I just wanted to hear his voice for the last time. When I got to him he was dead, I couldnt even talk to him. He says he cant believe his son has been taken away from him. I was going to take him to the stadium to watch the Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates clash, it was going to be a surprise. Meanwhile, Etwatwa community members say the two victims, who were suspected of being members of the OVL gang, were killed because they have been terrorising the community for too long, and police have simply done nothing. WATCH: Etwatwa's fight to take back the streets One community member says they are under siege, with gangsters terrorising the community by raping, robbing and assaulting them. They do whatever they want. Even when we deliver them to the police, they will release them. Community members say the only way to end this terrorism - is to identify the gangsters and quote deal with them.&quot; If I know the guy, I inform the community who then in turn deals with him. They say they have been living on the edge, with curfews at night, and staying off the streets trying to avoid being victims, and say this has to stop now. LISTEN: Police investigating after boy burnt to death in Etwatwa