Sports fans lined up the streets to pay tribute to athletes who took part in Rio Olympics and Paralympics. CAPE TOWN &ndash; Hundreds of Capetonians today thronged streets surrounding City Hall to pay tribute, alongside local government, to the Western Cape athletes who participated in the Olympics and Paralympics in August. Sports fans cheered on the medallists, while applauding dignitaries observed from the balcony. #OlympicParade Currently honouring all #Rio2016 CT athletes - the situation right now - athletes, dignitaries, media and fans all excited pic.twitter.com/9YQdCGxzXh &mdash; EWN Sport (@EWNsport) October 17, 2016 Premier Helen Zille and executive mayor Patricia de Lille kicked off proceedings at the Grand Parade by welcoming the crowds. Over two dozen Olympic and Paralympic athletes are being honoured by the City of Cape Town for their Rio performances, including world champion Wayde van Niekerk and Paralympic superstar Hilton Lanfenhoven. #OlympicParade [WATCH] Fans go wild when they see the Paralympic and Olympic athletes. pic.twitter.com/Oy4thVgggj &mdash; EWN Sport (@EWNsport) October 17, 2016 Athletes then boarded an open top bus which transported them to the Green Point stadium. CAPE TOWN &ndash; Hundreds of Capetonians today thronged streets surrounding City Hall to pay tribute, alongside local government, to the Western Cape athletes who participated in the Olympics and Paralympics in August.Sports fans cheered on the medallists, while applauding dignitaries observed from the balcony.#OlympicParade Currently honouring all #Rio2016 CT athletes - the situation right now - athletes, dignitaries, media and fans all excited pic.twitter.com/9YQdCGxzXhPremier Helen Zille and executive mayor Patricia de Lille kicked off proceedings at the Grand Parade by welcoming the crowds. Over two dozen Olympic and Paralympic athletes are being honoured by the City of Cape Town for their Rio performances, including world champion Wayde van Niekerk and Paralympic superstar Hilton Lanfenhoven.#OlympicParade [WATCH] Fans go wild when they see the Paralympic and Olympic athletes. pic.twitter.com/Oy4thVgggjAthletes then boarded an open top bus which transported them to the Green Point stadium.