The lock fought off strong challenges from Eben Etzebeth, Ruan Combrinck, Jaco Kriel and Warren Whiteley. JOHANNESBURG - Pieter-Steph du Toit became the second Springbok lock in as many seasons to be named South Africas Rugbys Player of the Year, following a stand out season in the green and gold. Still only 24-years-old, Du Toit follows in the footsteps of Lood de Jager, who walked away with the award for the 2015 season. Despite an indifferent season for the Springboks, the future looks bright with the average age of all the players who won awards, just 22.7 years. A word of thanks from your SA Rugby Player of the Year, Pieter-Steph du Toit. #LoveRugby #POTY2016 pic.twitter.com/Iwn25c23dO&mdash; South African Rugby (@Springboks) October 24, 2016 A word of thanks from your SA Rugby Player of the Year, Pieter-Steph du Toit. #LoveRugby #POTY2016 pic.twitter.com/Iwn25c23dO The Springbok and Stormers lock fought off strong challenges from Eben Etzebeth, and the Lions trio of Ruan Combrinck, Jaco Kriel and Warren Whiteley. The Golden Lions was the stand out union on the night, winning five awards in a season that saw them reach the Super Rugby final. Malcolm Marx was named Young Player of the Year, Elton Jantjies won the Super Rugby Player of the Tournament award, Jacques Nel picked up Try of the Year while Johan Ackermann won the Coach of the Year. The team walked away with the Team of the Year title as well. The Players Player of the Year Award, voted for by the players, went to the Sharks Jean-Luc du Preez, while Seabelo Senatla was crowned Springbok Sevens Player of the Year, Curwin Bosch Junior Springbok Player of the Year and Marithy Pienaar Springbok Women Player of the Year. LIST OF AWARDS: SA Rugby Player of the Year: Pieter-Steph du Toit Young Player of the Year: Malcolm Marx Players Player of the Year: Jean-Luc du Preez (Sharks) Team of the Year: Emirates Lions (Super Rugby) Coach of the Year: Johan Ackermann (Golden Lions) Junior Springbok Player of the Year: Curwin Bosch SA Sevens Player of the Year: Seabelo Senatla Vodacom Super Rugby Player of Year: Elton Jantjies (Lions) Currie Cup Premier Division Player of the Year: Ox Nche (Free State Cheetahs)