The gathering is aimed at finalising a plan of action and outlining the students' concerns. JOHANNESBURG - A # FeesMustFall mass meeting is being held at Wits University this afternoon ahead of tomorrow's general assembly. Some parents, students and staff are attending the meeting at Senate House. The gathering is aimed at finalising a plan of action and outlining their concerns. Earlier, students marched to the medical campus to mobilise support in their call for free tertiary education. This student representative says they plan to go into tomorrow's assembly with one voice. "Our parents who are here, we thank you so much because you are demonstrating to the world that this is not a goal for students but this is a national call. This is where we hold our government accountable." Wits University students and staff have been debating some of the demands they will put forward at tomorrow's meeting. Incoming SRC president Kefenste Mkhari says they will go in to tomorrow's assembly with a unified voice. "We are tired of people who come and agree with us in principle. They must come and implement the agreement, they must come and show through action that they are with us." Mkhari says their aim is to send a strong message to government. "We are not willing to go back to school until we get this free quality education." Wits has warned that should an agreement not be reached at tomorrow's general assembly,they may have to suspend all academic activities for the year. LISTEN: #Fees2017: How to fund affordable higher education  HABIB LABELED A CRIMINAL As Wits University makes the final preparations for its general assembly to discuss the prospects of free education, student leaders say the institution's vice-chancellor Adam Habib will not be allowed to chair the meeting because he is a "criminal". However, Wits spokesperson Shirona Patel has clarified that the general assembly at the institution has always been presided over by the chancellor, and that will once again be the case on Friday. The chancellor of Wits is former deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke. On Tuesday, the institution shut down its campuses for the remainder of the week following talks with former student leaders, SRC and members of the clergy. The university has reiterated it doesn't want the 2016 academic programme to be compromised and that classes will resume tomorrow, regardless of the outcome of tomorrow's meeting. Following a meeting between the university and former and current student leaders, it was decided a general assembly will be held tomorrow, and focus on a consensual position on the principle of full access to higher education. The assembly is expected to be attended by students, former student leaders, academics, parents and struggle stalwarts such as Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. Additional reporting by Clement Manyathela.