Zuma wants the report's release to be postponed, saying he needs more time to respond on the matter. JOHANNESBURG - President Jacob Zuma's application to interdict the state capture report is set to be heard by a full bench of judges this week and has been extended. The case had initially been set down for Tuesday only, but the office of North Gauteng deputy judge president Aubrey Ledwaba has sent a letter to Zuma's legal team indicating that arguments will be heard over two days. Zuma wants the matter to be postponed, saying he needs more time to respond to an affidavit filed last week by former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor who wants to be listed as a respondent in the case. Last week, Zuma's legal team indicated that they would ask for a postponement in the state capture case because Mentor had only recently filed her affidavit and they need an opportunity to reply. Ledwaba responded by saying that all responses must be filed by the weekend and heads of arguments submitted as a full bench of judges will be hearing the matter. Opposition parties involved in the matter have all opposed a postponement. The Democratic Alliance's Mabine Seabe says this is another delay tactic by Zuma. &quot;President Jacob Zuma is playing nothing more than delaying games, essentially delaying the inevitable, which is the release of this report.&quot; The highly anticipated state capture report, is currently under lock and key at the Public Protector's office. OPPOSITION WANT MORE DETAILS ON GUPTA Opposition parties say it's imperative that details of President Jacob Zuma's relationship with the Gupta family are made public, with more explosive information emerging about the controversial family's alleged influence over Cabinet appointments. The Sunday Times reported that Des van Rooyen apparently visited the Gupta family compound seven days in a row before he was appointed as Finance Minister for a brief period last year. Zuma's application to interdict the release of the state capture report will be heard at the High Court in Pretoria tomorrow. The BBC has also reported that cell phone evidence placed Van Rooyen at the Gupta's home the night before his appointment, raising more questions about the family's influence over Cabinet positions. Gert van der Merwe, who represents the Guptas, says they are not respondents in the interdict case to be heard tomorrow, saying whatever comes out of the report implicating his clients can be dealt with in a review process because he maintains due process wasn't followed when former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela conducted the investigation.