Pitso Mosimane could become the first South African coach to win the coveted championship. JOHANNESBURG &ndash; After 14 and 15 years of absence from the Caf Champions League final respectively, Zamalek and Mamelodi Sundowns are back in contention for Africa&rsquo;s premier club title, as they get ready to square off in the first leg at the Lucas Moripe Stadium on Saturday. The last time Zamalek were in this final, they beat Morocco&rsquo;s Raja Casablanca by a narrow 1-0 over both legs, to clinch their fifth title, while the last time Sundowns were in this position, they went down 4-1 to another Egyptian giant, Al Ahly. The first leg is set to be the two teams&rsquo; third meeting in the Champions League this year, after meeting twice in the group stages, with &lsquo;Downs&rsquo; going on to beat their opponents 2-1 away and then 1-0 at home. Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane says the team&rsquo;s plan for the final is pretty simple; to stick to their goal-scoring form that&rsquo;s seen them score an average of two goals throughout the campaign, adding that anything less will leave them in some trouble. &ldquo;The plan is to stay the way we are, we play the same we played against Zesco United, scoring two goals, we play the same way we played against Chicken Inn, scored two goals, play the same we way we played against Leopards, scored two goals, play the same way we played against AS Vita Club, score two goals. So let&rsquo;s stay on this story of two goals&rdquo; Although Sundowns may not become the first South African team to lift the Champions League trophy, after Orlando Pirates clinched it in 1995, Mosimane is set to make history if his team can do the business. The former Bafana Bafana and Supersport United boss will become the first South African coach to win the coveted championship and the second coach to win a continental tournament, after Clive Barker guided the national team to the Africa Cup of Nations in 1996. South Africa has been on ascendency in continental club football in the last 10 years, with Pirates making it to the Champions League semi-final in 2006, the Champions League final in 2013, the Caf Confederation Cup last year and now, Sundowns are into the Champions League final. The only major absence from the Pretoria outfit is that of Leonardo Castro, who is still recovering from injury. However, Mosimane will have full confidence in the likes of Khama Billiat, Keagan Dolly, Hlompho Kekana and Dennis Onyango. What makes Sundowns&rsquo; presence in the final all the more special in that they were knocked out of the competition before the group stages by Vita, but upon review, Vita were disqualified from the competition after a major transgression of Caf&rsquo;s rules and regulations. Lucas Moripe is expected to be packed to capacity, with fans draped in their yellow regalia. Kickoff is at 3pm. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza) JOHANNESBURG &ndash; After 14 and 15 years of absence from the Caf Champions League final respectively, Zamalek and Mamelodi Sundowns are back in contention for Africa&rsquo;s premier club title, as they get ready to square off in the first leg at the Lucas Moripe Stadium on Saturday. The last time Zamalek were in this final, they beat Morocco&rsquo;s Raja Casablanca by a narrow 1-0 over both legs, to clinch their fifth title, while the last time Sundowns were in this position, they went down 4-1 to another Egyptian giant, Al Ahly. The first leg is set to be the two teams&rsquo; third meeting in the Champions League this year, after meeting twice in the group stages, with &lsquo;Downs&rsquo; going on to beat their opponents 2-1 away and then 1-0 at home. Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane says the team&rsquo;s plan for the final is pretty simple; to stick to their goal-scoring form that&rsquo;s seen them score an average of two goals throughout the campaign, adding that anything less will leave them in some trouble. &ldquo;The plan is to stay the way we are, we play the same we played against Zesco United, scoring two goals, we play the same way we played against Chicken Inn, scored two goals, play the same we way we played against Leopards, scored two goals, play the same way we played against AS Vita Club, score two goals. So let&rsquo;s stay on this story of two goals&rdquo; Although Sundowns may not become the first South African team to lift the Champions League trophy, after Orlando Pirates clinched it in 1995, Mosimane is set to make history if his team can do the business. The former Bafana Bafana and Supersport United boss will become the first South African coach to win the coveted championship and the second coach to win a continental tournament, after Clive Barker guided the national team to the Africa Cup of Nations in 1996. South Africa has been on ascendency in continental club football in the last 10 years, with Pirates making it to the Champions League semi-final in 2006, the Champions League final in 2013, the Caf Confederation Cup last year and now, Sundowns are into the Champions League final. The only major absence from the Pretoria outfit is that of Leonardo Castro, who is still recovering from injury. However, Mosimane will have full confidence in the likes of Khama Billiat, Keagan Dolly, Hlompho Kekana and Dennis Onyango. What makes Sundowns&rsquo; presence in the final all the more special in that they were knocked out of the competition before the group stages by Vita, but upon review, Vita were disqualified from the competition after a major transgression of Caf&rsquo;s rules and regulations. Lucas Moripe is expected to be packed to capacity, with fans draped in their yellow regalia. Kickoff is at 3pm.