He called on the military veterans wing to bring their guns and defend President Zuma. JOHANNESBURG - The&nbsp;African National Congress&nbsp;(ANC) has condemned youth league leader&nbsp;Collen Maine over comments made at a "Hands off Zuma" march, which took place in eThekwini on Saturday. Maine called on the Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association "to take up arms in defence of President Jacob Zuma". The ruling party has described his comments as irresponsible and reckless. It says although Maine has the right to freedom of expression, it does not extend to inflammatory remarks. The governing party says the comments should never be allowed to find space in the democratic society. The ANC&rsquo;s Khusela Sangoni says: &ldquo;We are of the view that the freedoms enjoyed in South Africa today came at a very heavy price. Those freedoms do not extend to inflammatory language that we have seen. We are of the view that challenges facing our society needs decisive leadership and definitely not talks that calls on others to take up arms.&rdquo; The Congress of the People says it plans to lay criminal charges against Maine for incitement of violence. (Edited by Shimoney Regter) JOHANNESBURG - The&nbsp;African National Congress&nbsp;(ANC) has condemned youth league leader&nbsp;Collen Maine over comments made at a "Hands off Zuma" march, which took place in eThekwini on Saturday.Maine called on the Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association "to take up arms in defence of President Jacob Zuma".The ruling party has described his comments as irresponsible and reckless.It says although Maine has the right to freedom of expression, it does not extend to inflammatory remarks.The governing party says the comments should never be allowed to find space in the democratic society.The ANC&rsquo;s Khusela Sangoni says: &ldquo;We are of the view that the freedoms enjoyed in South Africa today came at a very heavy price. Those freedoms do not extend to inflammatory language that we have seen. We are of the view that challenges facing our society needs decisive leadership and definitely not talks that calls on others to take up arms.&rdquo;The Congress of the People says it plans to lay criminal charges against Maine for incitement of violence.(Edited by Shimoney Regter)