WP will hope to repeat last year&#39;s semifinal result when they beat the Bulls. CAPE TOWN &ndash; Western Province coach John Dobson says his team are in a good space mentally and are enjoying the underdogs tag ahead of their Currie Cup playoff clash against the Blue Bulls at Loftus. &nbsp; Dobson has made six changes to his starting line-up on Saturday for the semifinal. The Springbok duo of centre Juan de Jongh and hooker Bongi Mbonambi both return from national duty.&nbsp; &nbsp; De Jongh starts alongside the fit-again Huw Jones, while the two other changes to the backline sees scrumhalf Dewaldt Duvenage also return from injury while Werner Kok starts on the right wing. &nbsp; The only other change to the pack sees experienced loosehead prop JC Janse van Rensburg line up next to Mbonambi in the front row. &nbsp; In a repeat of last year&rsquo;s semifinal, Province ran out winners by five points then and they will hope to repeat the result as they travel to Pretoria for the North versus South derby. &nbsp; Province finished one place behind the Bulls on the log this season, in third place, and Dobson says the team is in better shape when compared to last year&rsquo;s match. &nbsp; &ldquo;I feel we in a better space, we&rsquo;re better organised. I believe we&rsquo;re better off this time last year, in terms of our belief and plans.&rdquo; &nbsp; Dobson says the spirit and belief in the team is there to progress to the final of the Currie Cup. Province scraped through to the playoffs after managing three consecutive wins at the end of the group stage to secure their spot in the semifinal.&nbsp; &nbsp; Dobson says that experience of making it into the top four has helped with the approach of the squad heading into what is expected to be a physical match against their Northern rivals. &nbsp; &ldquo;We had about five quarterfinals, every time we&rsquo;re going to lose we&rsquo;re going to get knocked out. We sort of clawed and fought our way into the semis and now it feels like we playing for something positive. We&rsquo;re playing for a place in the final and not fear of failure, so it&rsquo;s a different mindset now and that is why I feel good.&rdquo; &nbsp; Dobson believes that his team gained some momentum in their push for a top four berth. Although they lost to the Bulls in their previous encounter at Loftus earlier in this season&rsquo;s Currie Cup. &nbsp; Province are a different team in terms of personnel as they welcome back their Springboks and have a host of key players returning from injury. Dobson says they&rsquo;re happy to head into the match with people expecting them to lose. &nbsp; &ldquo;It would be hard for me to try and sell us as favourites for this one. A lot of people didn&rsquo;t even expect us to be in the semifinal, so we are way out the underdogs, but we like that.&rdquo; &nbsp; Interestingly for the match, both teams will have match day squads of 23, which has not previously been the case in previous rounds of the competition as coaches have been forced to pick squads of 22. &nbsp; Match day Squads Blue Bulls 15 Ulrich Beyers, 14 Travis Ismaiel, 13 Dries Swanepoel, 12 Burger Odendaal, 11 Jamba Ulengo, 10 Tian Schoeman, 9 Rudy Paige, 8 Arno Botha (captain), 7 Jannes Kirsten, 6 Roelof Smit, 5 RG Snyman, 4 Marvin Orie, 3 Jacobie Adriaanse, 2 Jaco Visagie, 1 Lizo Gqoboka Substitutes: 16 Bandise Maku, 17 Martin Dreyer, 18 Pierre Schoeman, 19 Jason Jenkins, 20 Hanro Liebenberg, 21 Ivan van Zyl, 22 Joshua Stander, 23 Bjorn Basson/Nic de Jager Western Province 15 Cheslin Kolbe, 14 Werner Kok, 13 Juan de Jongh, 12 Huw Jones, 11 Leolin Zas, 10 Robert du Preez, 9 Dewaldt Duvenage, 8 Nizaam Carr, 7 Kobus van Dyk, 6 Rynhardt Elstadt, 5 Chris van Zyl (captain), 4 Jan de Klerk, 3 Wilco Louw, 2 Bongi Mbonambi, 1 JC Janse van Rensburg. Substitutes: 16 Mike Willemse, 17 Alistair Vermaak, 18 JP Smith, 19 JD Schickerling, 20 Stefan Willemse, 21 Jano Vermaak, 22 Johnny Kotze, 23 Scott van Breda CAPE TOWN &ndash; Western Province coach John Dobson says his team are in a good space mentally and are enjoying the underdogs tag ahead of their Currie Cup playoff clash against the Blue Bulls at Loftus. &nbsp; Dobson has made six changes to his starting line-up on Saturday for the semifinal. The Springbok duo of centre Juan de Jongh and hooker Bongi Mbonambi both return from national duty.&nbsp; &nbsp; De Jongh starts alongside the fit-again Huw Jones, while the two other changes to the backline sees scrumhalf Dewaldt Duvenage also return from injury while Werner Kok starts on the right wing. &nbsp; The only other change to the pack sees experienced loosehead prop JC Janse van Rensburg line up next to Mbonambi in the front row. &nbsp; In a repeat of last year&rsquo;s semifinal, Province ran out winners by five points then and they will hope to repeat the result as they travel to Pretoria for the North versus South derby. &nbsp; Province finished one place behind the Bulls on the log this season, in third place, and Dobson says the team is in better shape when compared to last year&rsquo;s match. &nbsp; &ldquo;I feel we in a better space, we&rsquo;re better organised. I believe we&rsquo;re better off this time last year, in terms of our belief and plans.&rdquo; &nbsp; Dobson says the spirit and belief in the team is there to progress to the final of the Currie Cup. Province scraped through to the playoffs after managing three consecutive wins at the end of the group stage to secure their spot in the semifinal.&nbsp; &nbsp; Dobson says that experience of making it into the top four has helped with the approach of the squad heading into what is expected to be a physical match against their Northern rivals. &nbsp; &ldquo;We had about five quarterfinals, every time we&rsquo;re going to lose we&rsquo;re going to get knocked out. We sort of clawed and fought our way into the semis and now it feels like we playing for something positive. We&rsquo;re playing for a place in the final and not fear of failure, so it&rsquo;s a different mindset now and that is why I feel good.&rdquo; &nbsp; Dobson believes that his team gained some momentum in their push for a top four berth. Although they lost to the Bulls in their previous encounter at Loftus earlier in this season&rsquo;s Currie Cup. &nbsp; Province are a different team in terms of personnel as they welcome back their Springboks and have a host of key players returning from injury. Dobson says they&rsquo;re happy to head into the match with people expecting them to lose. &nbsp; &ldquo;It would be hard for me to try and sell us as favourites for this one. A lot of people didn&rsquo;t even expect us to be in the semifinal, so we are way out the underdogs, but we like that.&rdquo; &nbsp; Interestingly for the match, both teams will have match day squads of 23, which has not previously been the case in previous rounds of the competition as coaches have been forced to pick squads of 22. &nbsp; Match day SquadsBlue Bulls 15 Ulrich Beyers, 14 Travis Ismaiel, 13 Dries Swanepoel, 12 Burger Odendaal, 11 Jamba Ulengo, 10 Tian Schoeman, 9 Rudy Paige, 8 Arno Botha (captain), 7 Jannes Kirsten, 6 Roelof Smit, 5 RG Snyman, 4 Marvin Orie, 3 Jacobie Adriaanse, 2 Jaco Visagie, 1 Lizo Gqoboka Substitutes: 16 Bandise Maku, 17 Martin Dreyer, 18 Pierre Schoeman, 19 Jason Jenkins, 20 Hanro Liebenberg, 21 Ivan van Zyl, 22 Joshua Stander, 23 Bjorn Basson/Nic de JagerWestern Province 15 Cheslin Kolbe, 14 Werner Kok, 13 Juan de Jongh, 12 Huw Jones, 11 Leolin Zas, 10 Robert du Preez, 9 Dewaldt Duvenage, 8 Nizaam Carr, 7 Kobus van Dyk, 6 Rynhardt Elstadt, 5 Chris van Zyl (captain), 4 Jan de Klerk, 3 Wilco Louw, 2 Bongi Mbonambi, 1 JC Janse van Rensburg.