Authorities say the trains were travelling on the same rail in opposite directions. JOHANNESBURG - Metrorail says it will set up a board of inquiry to investigate what caused the train accidentin Tembisa, which left one person dead and over 240 others injured. Two trains collided on Monday afternoonon the rail split from Kaalfontein Station towards the Oakmoor and Tembisa stations. Authorities say the trains were travelling on the same rail in opposite directions. As investigators assessed the scene of the train accident Metrorail announced a full board of inquiry would investigate what lead to the collision. #TrainCrash Pics from the scene show some with injuries being treated, while others wait to be, and the point of collission. @ThomHolder pic.twitter.com/lTqrHWmNiK&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 24, 2016 #TrainCrash Pics from the scene show some with injuries being treated, while others wait to be, and the point of collission. @ThomHolder pic.twitter.com/lTqrHWmNiK Metrorail spokesperson Lilian Mofokeng said: We are going to make sure that a board of inquiry is set up to between Railway Safety Regulator and Metrorail to make sure that we get the details of what could have caused the accident. She said the rail agencys focus was now on the family of the person killed and those injured. We are giving support to the family of the deceased and would like to pass our condolences to them. To those who are injured, we would like to wish them a speedy recovery. All injured passengers were attended to on the scene, while those with serious injuries were taken to hospital. At the same time, police said a case of culpable homicide was now being investigated. #TrainCrash The crumpled carriage, just behind the locomotive, where the body of the deceased was removed from. @ThomHolder pic.twitter.com/eROvF9jb9e&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 24, 2016 #TrainCrash The crumpled carriage, just behind the locomotive, where the body of the deceased was removed from. @ThomHolder pic.twitter.com/eROvF9jb9e Saps spokesperson Kay Makhubela said two cases have now been opened. We are going to investigate two cases - culpable homicide and collision of the two trains. We will be taking statements and presenting them to the prosecutor. He said whichever driver was found to be at fault would be charged. One of the train drivers was injured and taken to hospital together with passengers while the other was not hurt. #TrainCrash hundreds of passengers sit on the trackside, while medical and police personnel search the wreckage. TH pic.twitter.com/oVWHKbRLgl&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 24, 2016 #TrainCrash hundreds of passengers sit on the trackside, while medical and police personnel search the wreckage. TH pic.twitter.com/oVWHKbRLgl