Video footage Vlok Symington recorded shows him being blocked from leaving Sars officer over a document. PRETORIA - Questions have emerged as to why Sars commissioner Tom Moyane s personal bodyguard was helping the Hawks take a statement from a revenue service employee and eventually played a part in holding him hostage. Senior Hawks officials, including the head of the crimes against the state unit Brigadier Nyameka Xaba, wanted a statement from the staff member who gave former deputy commissioner Ivan Pillay advice on his request for early retirement in 2009. #SARShostage SARS commissioner Tom Moyanes bodyguard, Thabo Titi. He blocked the door. BB pic.twitter.com/dcfCrDFI21&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 27, 2016 #SARShostage SARS commissioner Tom Moyanes bodyguard, Thabo Titi. He blocked the door. BB pic.twitter.com/dcfCrDFI21 Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan has been charged together with Pillay with fraud for approving Pillay s early retirement and subsequent re-appointment on a contract. Vlok Symington recorded shows him trying to leave a boardroom while Moyane s bodyguard who was on the phone and seemingly receiving instructions blocks his path. Can I open the door? Why not? Why can t I open the door? #SARShostage two other Hawks officials were in the office. BB pic.twitter.com/rATc2tfcXw&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 27, 2016 #SARShostage two other Hawks officials were in the office. BB pic.twitter.com/rATc2tfcXw It s understood the drama started when Xaba mistakenly gave Symington copies of an email exchange which revealed that Sars own attorney disagreed with the prosecution of Gordhan. Xaba wanted it back. We want that document. We are saying that one doesn t belong to you. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate has confirmed that a case of kidnapping has been opened. #SARShostage among the alleged hostage takers was CATS boss Brig Nyameka Xaba (left). BB pic.twitter.com/V1XRcUqNFd&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 27, 2016 #SARShostage among the alleged hostage takers was CATS boss Brig Nyameka Xaba (left). BB pic.twitter.com/V1XRcUqNFd Sars has not commented on the incident. (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)