As Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan readies himself to deliver the mini-budget later today, he does so under the pressure of criminal charges. It is certainly an unusual position for a senior Cabinet minister to be in. More than anything it is a stark reminder that above all, institutions matter. As President Zuma came to Parliament this week he mumbled on about not wishing to interfere in the Gordhan matter as that would consign us to the status of a Banana Republic. The irony when it appears as if National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) head Shaun Abrahams may have met Zuma and three Cabinet ministers ahead of charging Gordhan. It seems unlikely that Zuma has been a disinterested party in the matter. The allegations surrounding state capture have placed the spotlight firmly on the resilience of our democratic institutions. Their strength or weakness determines the depth and quality of a democracy. This might well be one of the most fundamental lessons of post-apartheid South Africa thus far. Our democratic institutions are meant to be living, breathing instruments that shape our society. Yet, in so many ways recent political battles have seen weakened institutions struggle to maintain their independence in the face of an onslaught of political pressure. Many of these battles have wended their way fully into the public domain. We watched the deeply compromised NPA head Abrahams bring baseless charges against Gordhan. Gordhan himself has now hit back with a damning affidavit regarding the presidents friends, the Guptas and their financial activities. Clearly, Gordhan will not be going down without a fight. In many other countries, such damning information about those in power would be hidden; the media would be too afraid to publish or would be jailed for doing so. Not in South Africa. The curious thing is that we all have far too much information at our disposal about the president and his corrupt band of cronies. This democracy may be faltering but it is robust and the truth will out. The question for South Africa is always, now that we know, what do we do with the information and how does one extract accountability since we don't indulge in that great British tradition of the political resignation? There was never a greater moment to illustrate how much institutions matter than when former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela left office recently. As the tributes poured in for the remarkable Madonsela we were reminded of how much our country needs those at the helm of institutions to hold the line of independence and accountability. It's not a job for the faint-hearted and Madonsela's demeanour has always belied her backbone of steel. She has left the Public Protector's office stronger, ironically largely as a result of the ConCourt's judgment in the Nkandla matter. Her successor has big shoes to fill. One wants to give Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane the benefit of the doubt, but her first interaction with the press was rather underwhelming and she seemed to make many sweeping statements about an office she still needs to come to grips with. Her factually incorrect statement regarding donor funding used by her predecessor to fund investigations seemed to be an attempt to cast aspersions on Madonsela. At the very least this was ungracious. Her directive to staff to change the institution's television channel from eNCA to the Gupta-owned ANN7 says a great deal given the poor quality of ANN7 as well as its bias. She will have a tough job in this political climate and her first interactions do not inspire confidence regarding either her political or legal nous. Despite the seeming paralysis within the ANC regarding the Zuma problem, some are finding their voices. Deputy President Cyril Rampahosa issued a tame statement of support for Gordhan. He might have said that the charges have no basis in law and also that his boss should be recalled. But Ramaphosa has not yet reached the point of ending the frustrating forked tongue with which he speaks. In Parliament, the ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu also recently found a voice. Firstly it was in the ongoing and rather absurd saga involving Hlaudi Motsoeneng and the SABC and then on the weekend calling for the entire NEC to resign. Parliament is now a hollow shell and saving the institution will require leadership which is united and which has integrity. Mthembu unfortunately keeps bumping up against the Speaker, ANC party chair and Zuma loyalist, Baleka Mbete. It was Mbete who tried to play pass the parcel with Madonsela's state capture report and then eventually seemed to receive an instruction that Parliament needed to keep the report in safe-keeping. Whatever the future holds we will need independent institutions led by those who have a loyalty to the Constitution and not individual powerbrokers. The institutional turmoil at universities and the inability of the state to intervene has shown quite clearly that the paralysis within the ANC has widespread implications for the future. Democratic institutions, which include places of learning, are not built overnight. The painstaking process of creating a culture of transparency and accountability which has longevity and which is ingrained, takes time. So the more immediate task of governing remains and along with that the challenge of preserving that, which works within our institutions. One senses it won't be easy as Zuma and his merry band seek to undermine institutions that would stand in the way of ultimate looting. Judith February is based at the Institute for Security Studies. Follow her on Twitter: _ @judithfebruary</a>.