The Sunday Times says the Public Protector used cellphone records to track Van Rooyens whereabouts. JOHANNEBSURG - The Democratic Alliance (DA) says it will ask the Public Protector's office to investigate whether Cooperative Governance Minister Des van Rooyen misled Parliament when he denied having relations with the Gupta family. It's being reported that Van Rooyen had seven meetings at the controversial family's home, including one on the night before he was appointed to the finance ministry, replacing Nhlanhla Nene. The Sunday Times says the minister and his advisors had drafted eight initiatives that would be implemented once he took the reins at Treasury. These include the establishment of a South African National Black Bank, which would use municipal assets as collateral and give the state room to dump commercial banks. The DA's Kevin Mileham says if the reports are true, Van Rooyen has violated the Ethics code of Parliament. &quot;Minister Van Rooyen in a reply to Parliamentary questions, stated categorically that he had not visited the Guptas prior to the appointment as the Minister of Finance, and the Sunday Times article makes it clear that he was there several times in a week before his appointment. &quot;So that's misleading parliament and in terms of the Executive Ethics Code, he's then culpable in that regard.&quot; The paper is reporting that the Public Protectors investigation reveals that Van Rooyen spent the night before 9 December announcement at the Gupta residence. It goes on to say that former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela received the evidence just days before President Jacob Zuma and Van Rooyen served her office with notices to interdict her report. Van Rooyen's adviser Mohammed Bobat, who is believed to have been brought in to advance a Gupta agenda, also allegedly visited the family home between 2 and 8 December last year. The paper has also revealed a series of emails between Gupta affiliates, outlining eight initiatives Van Rooyen would fulfill, including the establishment of a South African national black bank, allowing the state to be able to dump commercial banks. Zuma's interdict application is expected to be heard next week, while Van Rooyen withdrew his notice last week.