Madonsela says government should find a way of reaching out to students in order for peace and stability. JOHANNESBURG &ndash; Advocate Thuli Madonsela has warned against using police as a buffer between government and citizens. The former public protector was addressing a gathering of protesting students and various other stakeholders at Wits University this evening, at a meeting regarding the current fees crisis at universities. The Fees Must Fall demonstrations have seen frequent clashes between students and police. Earlier students ordered vice chancellor Adam Habib to leave their gathering which was held at the Holy Trinity Church in Braamfontien. WATCH: Adam Habib kicked out of peace accord meeting &nbsp;Madonsela says government should find a way of reaching out to students in order for peace and stability to be restored at South Africa&rsquo;s tertiary institutions. &ldquo;The police are now being placed as a buffer between the people and government. When we resolved a dispute such as this, but it was a small one, in Kuruman the police told us that they don&rsquo;t want to be a buffer between their own people and government.&rdquo; At the same time, Parliament&rsquo;s portfolio committee on higher education and training is calling on students, Minister Blade Nzimande and other various stakeholders to go back to the drawing board, to resolve the current higher education crisis. The committee is on a week-long visit to Gauteng, engaging various stakeholders in the higher education sector with the aim of finding ways to complete the academic year. Yesterday, President Jacob Zuma said he found worrying that genuine concerns regarding the cost of university education have been hijacked and marred by violence. He said police must bring to book those who use genuine grievances to promote criminal acts. While Acting National Police Commissioner Khomotso Phahlane said, on Monday, there is no truth to allegations that police are specifically targeting student leaders to destabilise the Fees Must Fall protests. Phahlane specifically referred to the arrest of student leader and former Wits Student Representative Council President Mcebo Dlamini, who was today denied bail in the Johannesburg Magistrate Court. WATCH: Wits student activist Mcebo Dlamini denied bail Additional reporting by Clement Manyathela &amp; Masego Rahlaga&nbsp; (Edited by Masechaba Sefularo) JOHANNESBURG &ndash; Advocate Thuli Madonsela has warned against using police as a buffer between government and citizens.The former public protector was addressing a gathering of protesting students and various other stakeholders at Wits University this evening, at a meeting regarding the current fees crisis at universities. The Fees Must Fall demonstrations have seen frequent clashes between students and police. Earlier students ordered vice chancellor Adam Habib to leave their gathering which was held at the Holy Trinity Church in Braamfontien.WATCH: Adam Habib kicked out of peace accord meeting&nbsp;Madonsela says government should find a way of reaching out to students in order for peace and stability to be restored at South Africa&rsquo;s tertiary institutions. &ldquo;The police are now being placed as a buffer between the people and government. When we resolved a dispute such as this, but it was a small one, in Kuruman the police told us that they don&rsquo;t want to be a buffer between their own people and government.&rdquo;At the same time, Parliament&rsquo;s portfolio committee on higher education and training is calling on students, Minister Blade Nzimande and other various stakeholders to go back to the drawing board, to resolve the current higher education crisis.The committee is on a week-long visit to Gauteng, engaging various stakeholders in the higher education sector with the aim of finding ways to complete the academic year.Yesterday, President Jacob Zuma said he found worrying that genuine concerns regarding the cost of university education have been hijacked and marred by violence.He said police must bring to book those who use genuine grievances to promote criminal acts.While Acting National Police Commissioner Khomotso Phahlane said, on Monday, there is no truth to allegations that police are specifically targeting student leaders to destabilise the Fees Must Fall protests.Phahlane specifically referred to the arrest of student leader and former Wits Student Representative Council President Mcebo Dlamini, who was today denied bail in the Johannesburg Magistrate Court.WATCH: Wits student activist Mcebo Dlamini denied bailAdditional reporting by Clement Manyathela &amp; Masego Rahlaga&nbsp;(Edited by Masechaba Sefularo)