Wits continue their unbeaten start in the league, whilst Ajax are still winless this season. CAPE TOWN - Two secondhalf goals handed Wits a 2-1 come from behind victory over Ajax Cape Town atthe Cape Town Stadium.The win allows Wits tosit comfortably in third place in the league standings. Gavin Hunt s men arewithin touching distance (3 points) of leaders Kaizer Chiefs with two games inhand.For the UrbanWarriors, the loss is their fourth in the league this season. They have onlytwo points to their name from their opening six and are currently second frombottom with onlyAfrican championsMamelodi Sundowns below them. Unfortunately, Sundowns have only played oneleague match due to their various cup commitments. The match itself was adull affair, as it lacked noticeable rhythm as both sides jabbed at each otherwith no real intent to land a definitive blow from either. After the tame start,the match was provided with a moment of magic, which it desperately required.Ajax defender Erick Chipeta scored a delightful free kick from just outside thebox after 24 minutes to hand the home side the lead which they took into thebreak. Wits were out of thechange room early for the second half determined to make amends. Coach GavinHunt later confirmed he had some choice words to his players. Their resolvesoon translated into goals as Eleazar Rodgers headed home to level matters. Sadly for Ajax, justmoments before the equalizer, Wits keeper Darren Keet pulled off the save ofthe match when Prince Nxumalo sent a powerful shot goal bound. Keet thwartedthe excellent effort from the striker by using both reflexes and agility topalm it away. Ajax had another opportunityto grab a winner as Nxumalo sent a tame effort goalwards after latching on to anerrant Thulani Hlatshwayo header meant for Keet in goal. This was to be Wits evening, as a volley from the enigmatic substitute Mogakolodi Ngele stole theall the points in the 88th minute to land a sucker punch as a drawwould have been a fair result in the fixture. Witscontinue their unbeaten start in the league, whilst Ajax are still winless thisseason having played seven matches in all competitions.