Zuma says fraud charges against Gordhan werent discussed the day before he was formally charged. CAPE TOWN Pre sident Jacob Zuma says the fraud charges against the finance minister are a concern for everyone. He has also denied in Parliament that he discussed the prosecution of Finance < a href="http://ewn.co.z a/Topic/Fin ance-Minister-Pr avin-Gordh an">Minister Pr avin Gordh an</a> at ANC headquarters the day before he was charged. Zuma was asked about the meeting that took place at Luthuli House between him, National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) boss < a href="http://ewn.co.z a/2016/10/24/Freedom-Under-L aw-Helen-Suz am an-Found ation-t ake-on-NPA-over-Gordh an-ch arges">Sh aun Abr ah ams</a> and three Cabinet ministers 24 hours before fraud charges were brought against Gordhan. While the Presidency, Abrahams and Justice Minister Michael Masutha have insisted the charges were not discussed, Zuma issued his own denial while answering questions in the National Council of Provinces (NCOP). The matter was never discussed with (NPA boss Shaun) Abrahams, with the President, never never never, said Zuma. He was reluctant to discuss details of the charges against Gordhan, who is due to answer them in court on 2 November. That meeting was a meeting between the president and the security cluster, discussing a totally different matter not the matter of any arrest. Zuma says the charges are a concern to all of us, including investors. The matter of the minister I think the member should appreciate is before court. The President was then asked about Cabinets position on the finance minister being charged with fraud. He says, The minster has not been found guilty of any crime; he is innocent until found guilty. Zuma adds that the support for Gordhan has been noted. The minister has also received public support from various stakeholders in the country since the announcement of the charges, including business, religious leaders and community organisations. President Zuma was then asked whether the ratings agencies had been taken into account when charging Gordhan. He responded by saying the matter is now up to the courts, and he cannot intervene in any way. I think if this president were to interfere in any matter, either of Chapter Nine institutions or other institutions, then it would be closer to a banana republic. I HAVE THE RIGHT TO DEFEND MYSELF Meanwhile, Zuma says as a citizen of the country, its his right to defend himself in light of the former Public Protectors report on state capture. Hes applied for an interdict against the report, saying he was not consulted. While answering questions in the NCOP this afternoon, Zuma was asked whether he would withdraw his application. The president responded by saying, I interdicted because she was going to issue a report having not talked to me or asked me questions. It is in fact within the act of the Public Protector that those who are to be questioned have the right to do what I have done. At the same time earlier, NCOP chairperson Thandi Modise repeatedly called on Parliamen tary Pro tec tion Services to remove Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) members objecting to Zumas presence. The party maintains Zuma has no right to address honourable members of Parliament because they say he himself is not honourable. One EFF member has referred to Zuma as a murderer and a thief