The ANC confirms Baleka Mbete has kept Thuli Madonsela’s report and will hand it over to her successor. JOHANNESBURG - The African National Congress (ANC) in Parliament says it's disappointed by an inaccurate statement which states that National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete has outrightly declined to take custody of the state capture report by former public protector, Thuli Madonsela. The ruling party has moved to correct the earlier communication which was sent out by an official in the Parliamentary Communications services. The ANC's chief whip, Jackson Mthembu, this morning had discussion with Mbete and she has categorically distanced herself from the statement. Spokesperson in Parliament Moloto Mothapo says contents neither represent Mbete's view nor her instruction to the staff of parliament on the matter. "We can confirm that the speaker of the National Assembly is keeping the report of the public protector under lock and key in Parliament; and it will immediately be handed over to the new public protector, Advocate Busisiwe Mkhebane, when she takes over her office on Monday." Earlier reports, derived from the statement, said Mbete says her job requires she table any documents received by her office to ensure transparency in the National Assembly, but adds the report cannot be handled in that manner. Yesterday, advocate Thuli Madonsela announced she has written to Mbete, requesting she preserve and safe keep the report, until her successor assumes office as ordered by the high court. 'STATE CAPTURE IS AN URGENT MATTER' Former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela says she believes the state capture report is an urgent matter that needed to be finalised as soon as possible, but this doesn't mean she doesn't trust the new Public Protector. Madonsela had been accused of rushing the state capture report, by the lawyer representing the Gupta family and President Jacob Zuma. She said she believed she had to finalise this report as soon as possible. "I disagree with those who are saying the state capture investigation was not accurate, this matter has created so much fracture in the executive and in the country." But she said this didn't mean she didn't trust the new Public Protector. "It was a report I prepared based on the fact that I supervised an awesome team, but I was still part of the team and it made sense that I write the report." Additonal reporting by Gia Nicolaides