The 22-year-old singer was booed by the Manchester crowd as he spoke to them between songs. LOS ANGELES - Justin Bieber stormed off stage at his concert in Manchester, England, on Sunday (23.10.16), after being booed by fans. The 22-year-old singer was booed by the crowd as he spoke to them between songs, because they wanted him to get on with singing his hits, so be dropped his microphone and walked off the stage. However, he soon returned and said: "Manc can't handle the talking so I won't talk." And Justin explained his tantrum at the end of the concert, before he played Baby. He said: "The reason why I was getting upset earlier was because I travelled across the whole world to come here and I dedicate my life to performing and bring smiles to people's faces. "I feel that people were just not giving me the same respect back and it hurts a little bit so that's why. But we're gonna end it on this last song... Baby." WATCH: Bieber booed  Justin's UK dates on his Purpose world tour have been controversial, as last week the singer blasted his fans at two different concerts. On his opening night in Manchester, Justin told fans to stay "as quiet as possible" while he was singing. He said: "Try and stay as quiet as possible. You can scream as much as you want afterwards, but while I'm singing try and stay quiet." And Justin was also annoyed that fans would not listen when he started talking between songs. He reportedly said: "I just thought I could have a moment to say something. If not, I'll just get to singing. I don't mind cutting the bulls**t because I don't need to talk. I'm just trying to engage, but if you guys don't want to do that then we can just play the music." Just days before that, he also blasted fans for screaming at his show in Birmingham. He was recorded telling fans: "Just try to show me you love me, in a different way. I get it. The screaming is just so obnoxious. I get it, it's been in our blood and it's been grand, you go to a concert and scream and stuff. But if we could just ... scream after the song, enjoy the songs ... the screaming is awesome, it's fine, and then we take a chill pill for a second and we just listen to me speak. Because ... I don't feel like I'm being heard sometimes and it's getting a little pressuring. So, if when I'm speaking you guys could not scream at the top of your lungs. Is that cool with you guys?" During the recording one woman can be heard shouting "no", but Justin continued, admitting he finds it "tough" on tour sometimes being away from his pals. He explained: "Like I was saying, I've been on tour for a while now. I'm away from my friends so it can be tough sometimes. I have all you beautiful people to keep me company."