It’s understood a group of protestors was trying to disrupt classes at the institutions education campus. JOHANNESBURG - One student has been arrested after a group of protesters tried to disrupt classes at Wits University. It's understood the group tried to block the entrance to the Wits management campus but was later dispersed when security and police intervened. Yesterday saw running battles between protesters and police which spilled over to Braamfontein, which saw a bus being set alight and some shops looted. It's understood a group of protesters was trying to disrupt classes at the institution's education campus but were dispersed by authorities. The university says it's doing its best to ensure that its academic programme resumes. Wits' SRC has distanced itself from yesterday's violence on the streets of Braamfontein. It has accused police of being heavy-handed. A group of protesting students has gathered outside Solomon Mahlangu house it appears they may be mapping their way forward for today. ACADEMICS RAISE CONCERNS Meanwhile, academics at Wits University have raised concerns over the heavy security and police presence at the institution, saying it doesn't make for a conducive learning environment. Security has been reinforced at the university this morning following running battles between protesting students and police yesterday. The university's student representative council has distanced itself from the violence which unfolded following the incident. Classes were expected to get underway at the university today amid a high police and security presence. Professor Noor Nieftagodien, head of history workshop at the institution, said he's unhappy with the current situation. "The presence of security, both private security and police, is not conducive and makes it very difficult for the university to function." Nieftagodien said teaching is difficult under such conditions. "They may be fighting outside. They (students) hear the stun grenades, the tear gas comes into our classrooms and there's cops outside, we cannot teach under these conditions." WATCH: Students shut down Wits before taking #Fees2017 protest to Braamfontein