People around the world are marking World Mental Health Day today. Here’s what you need to know. CAPE TOWN - People around the world are marking World Mental Health Day, a day set by the World Health Organisation (WHO) to raise awareness around mental health issues. Many tweeps have reached out to those struggling with their mental health through messages of support online, calling for greater awareness and support:   #WorldMentalHealthDay - dont always assume you know someone just because they look fine.. always respect others journeys and have a heart ❤️  Mental pain is just as valid as physical pain. Visible or not, the point is the person is hurting and needs help.#WorldMentalHealthDay   by no means always easy to do or even process but useful advice nonetheless #WorldMentalHealthDay pic.twitter.com/WU9d32stAs Mental health is still largely considered "taboo" or a "curse" in many South African communities, the South African Depression and Anxiety Group (Sadag) said in a statement. Mental health issues affect people of all walks of life and can have devastating consequences. At least one in three South Africans will or do have a mental illness at some point in their lives. Psychiatrist Dr Mike West says raising awareness around mental health issues is crucial. "We need to raise the profile of mental health by creating awareness, especially among the youth who are becoming increasingly affected by psychological and psychiatric conditions. I think it'd be great to see more prominent local public figures, including actors, singers and celebrities, speaking positively and sincerely about mental health." While accessing expert advice can be challenging for some people, Sadag provides access to experts on Fridays, through Q&A sessions on Facebook. The group says people can ask questions on a range of topics including stress, depression, anxiety and substance abuse. On Friday (14 September) you can join a free mental health chat on Facebook between 1pm and 2pm and then from 7pm to 8pm. If you'd like to remain anonymous, you can send a private message to Sadag, who will ask the question on your behalf. There are also several numbers you can use in cases of emergency: Sadag's toll free helpline on: 0800 567 567 Dr Reddy's Helpline: 0800 21 22 23 Adcock Ingram Depression and Anxiety Helpline: 0800 70 80 90 Destiny Helpline for Youth & Students: 0800 41 42 43 Department of Social Development Substance Abuse Line 24hr helpline: 0800 12 13 14 & SMS 32312 To view more events by Sadag on mental health this month, _ click here._