The Sunday Times says the Public Protector used cellphone records to track Van Rooyens whereabouts. JOHANNESBURG - It has been reported that Cooperative Governance Minister Des van Rooyen allegedly visited the Gupta family home seven times before his appointment in December. The Sunday Times is reporting that the Public Protector's investigators have used cellphone records to track Van Rooyen's whereabouts. Van Rooyen replaced Nhlanhla Nene for four days last December but after a negative market reaction, was moved to the Cooperative Governance Ministry. The paper is reporting that the Public Protectors investigation reveals that Van Rooyen spent the night before 9 December announcement at the Gupta residence. It goes on to say that former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela received the evidence just days before President Jacob Zuma and Van Rooyen served her office with notices to interdict her report. Van Rooyen's adviser Mohammed Bobat, who is believed to have been brought in to advance a Gupta agenda, also allegedly visited the family home between 2 and 8 December last year. The paper has also revealed a series of emails between Gupta affiliates, outlining eight initiatives Van Rooyen would fulfill, including the establishment of a South African national black bank, allowing the state to be able to dump commercial banks. Zuma's interdict application is expected to be heard next week, while Van Rooyen withdrew his notice last week. ZUMA SEEKS WAYS TO POSTPONE COURT HEARING President Zuma wants to postpone the court hearing on the former public protector's state capture report, saying he needs more time to respond to the application filed this week by former African National Congress (ANC) Member of Parliament Vytjie Mentor. The case is due to be heard on Tuesday on an urgent basis, with the Democratic Alliance, Economic Freedom Fighters, United Democratic Movement and Congress of the People opposing Zuma's application to stop the release of the report, following Madonsela's investigation into the President's relationship with the controversial Gupta family. President Zuma applied for an urgent court interdict to stop the release of the state capture report the day before it was due to be released by former Madonsela. Zuma maintains he didn't have enough time to answer questions from Madonsela or interview the witnesses who supplied her with evidence.