Stocks ended slightly lower with MTN Group among the biggest decliners over Nigeria allegations. JOHANNESBURG The rand weakened, reflecting a firmer dollar after European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said the bank had not discussed ending or extending its asset-buying programme when it met on Thursday. Stocks ended slightly lower with MTN Group among the biggest decliners on allegations, which MTN denied, that the mobile phone group illegally moved at least $14 billion out of Nigeria. At 1515 GMT, the rand traded at 13.9500 per dollar, 0.83% weaker from its New York close on Wednesday. It had weakened as much as one percent to 13.9800/dollar after Draghiscomment. There was a little bit of market volatility due to the ECB. There was a discussion about whether they are going to extend QE (quantitative easing) or taper QE that had an effect on euro/dollar, which then just built into dollar/rand and we saw dollar/rand moving up,Treasury One currency trader Andre Botha said. Overall it has been quiet today. Everybody is taking stock after the whole (Finance Minister) Pravin Gordhan saga and waiting for the mid-term budget speech next week. Gordhan has the full backing of the cabinet as he faces charges that, while running the tax agency, he fraudulently approved early retirement for a deputy, Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe said on Thursday. The euro fell to a four-month low against the dollar on Thursday, helping the dollar index to a seven-month high, after Draghi spoke. The dollar was also supported by relatively hawkish comments by New York Fed President William Dudley late on Wednesday. On the bourse, the JSE Top-40 index ended 0.16% lower at 44,865 and the broader All-share index was down by the same margin to 51,420. MTN slid as much as 3.2% in the session to levels last seen more than six years ago before recouping some of the losses to close 2.25% lower at 107.50 rand. Speaking at the start of parliamentary hearing to investigate accusations that MTN transferred the money out of Nigeria, senator Olusola Adeyeye called the amount which MTN is alleged to have repatriated mind boggling. Theres a lot of nervousness around that, thats done the damage before and it just looks like its continuing, said Independent Securities trader Ryan Woods. Trading volumes were low with about 186 million shares changing hands, below last years daily average of 296 million shares. The yield for the benchmark government bond due in 2026 rose 1 basis point to 8.79%.