President Zuma wants to postpone the court hearing on the former Public Protector's state capture report. JOHANNESBURG - Opposition parties say it's imperative that details of President Jacob Zuma's relationship with the Gupta family are made public, with more explosive information emerging about the controversial family's alleged influence over Cabinet appointments. The Sunday Times reported that Des van Rooyen apparently visited the Gupta family compound seven days in a row before he was appointed as Finance Minister for a brief period last year. Zuma's application to interdict the release of the state capture report will be heard at the High Court in Pretoria tomorrow. The Democratic Alliance, the Economic Freedom Fighters, the United Democratic Movement, Congress of the People and now former African National Congress Member of Parliament, Vytjie Mentor, will argue in court tomorrow that the state capture report must be released to the public. The BBC has also reported that cell phone evidence placed Van Rooyen at the Gupta's home the night before his appointment, raising more questions about the family's influence over Cabinet positions. Gert van der Merwe, who represents the Guptas, says they are not respondents in the interdict case to be heard tomorrow, saying whatever comes out of the report implicating his clients can be dealt with in a review process because he maintains due process wasn't followed when former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela conducted the investigation. ZUMA SEEKS WAYS TO POSTPONE COURT HEARING President Zuma wants to postpone the court hearing on the former Public Protector's state capture report, saying that he needs more time to respond to the application filed this week by former African National Congress (ANC) Member of Parliament Vytjie Mentor. The case is due to be heard tomorrow on an urgent basis, with the Democratic Alliance, Economic Freedom Fighters, United Democratic Movement and Congress of the People opposing Zuma's application to stop the release of the report, following Madonsela's investigation into the President's relationship with the controversial Gupta family. President Zuma applied for an urgent court interdict to stop the release of the state capture report the day before it was due to be released by Madonsela. Zuma maintains he didn't have enough time to answer questions from Madonsela or interview the witnesses who supplied her with evidence.