Mashaba’s rant comes off the back of Bafana’s draw with Burkina Faso in their opening 2018 qualifier. JOHANNESBURG - Bafana Bafana coach Shakes Mashaba has, once again, taken aim at the South African media for what he believes is negative reporting about him and the national team, as well as casting aspersions about his future as head coach. Mashaba's latest rant comes off the back of Bafana's draw with Burkina Faso in their opening 2018 World Cup qualifier in Ouagadougou on Saturday, which the side looked poised to win, until they conceded a goal deep in injury time. The 66 year-old expressed his disappointment with the unfairness in reporting of Bafana, comparing the difference between how the Springboks' embarrassing drubbing by the All Blacks was reported on and how his side's performance was dragged through the mud. He referred, specifically, to how a newspaper painted Bafana's result against the Burkina Faso as 'bad', but the same paper handled the South African rugby team's demolition with kid gloves. Mashaba then touched on journalists' incessant reporting about how unsafe he is as national team boss, reminding everyone that he is not an employee of the media, but that his boss is the South African Football Association. "I'm happy that you're saying that an impression was created and it ends there…it was an impression. And with due respect to all of you, I'm not employed by the media, I'm employed by the South African Football Association, if they say enough is enough, who am I to stand in their way? "I've got to move and say, I've appreciated the opportunity I've received. What makes all this hullabaloo noise? I don't know where it comes from, but I know, it's only the Mauritania game, nothing else."  Bafana has been under a great deal of pressure after failing to qualify for the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations, with most people blaming the team's shock 3-1 loss to Mauritania earlier this year on their exclusion from the competition. The squad still have a chance to try win back some of the country's football fanatics, if they can sink Senegal in their next World Cup qualifier in November, which will be played in South Africa. Senegal are currently top of Group D, after beating Cape Verde in the other qualifier on Saturday.