Yesterday, advocate Thuli Madonsela announced she has written to Mbete about the report. Editor's note: The African National Congress' Chief Whip has confirmed the Public Protector's state capture report is indeed being kept safe in the National Assembly. He says National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete denied instructing Parliament to issue a statement on Friday night saying the report had been sent back to the Public Protector. To read the updated story, click here. JOHANNESBURG - Parliamentary Speaker Baleka Mbete has declined to safeguard the Public Protector's investigative report into allegations of state capture against President Jacob Zuma. Yesterday, advocate Thuli Madonsela announced she has written to Mbete, requesting she preserve and safe keep the report, until her successor assumes office as ordered by the high court. In a written statement, Mbete says her job requires she table any documents received by her office to ensure transparency in the National Assembly, but adds the report cannot be handled in that manner. Meanwhile, the political parties who intervened in the matter have shared mixed views on whether the report will eventually be released. Some parties intervened yesterday to oppose Cooperative Governance Minister Des van Rooyen's application to interdict the release of Madonsela's report. By agreement, the matter has been postponed until the first of next month. The African National Congress (ANC) says it looks forward to the release of the Public Protector's state capture report, which it says will assist it in its fight against the interference of private interests in state affairs. ANC spokesperson Khusela Sangoni explains: The allegations that there are undue influences over Cabinet ministers appointments is an attack on our revolutionary movement and our democracy. So we are of the view that this report will assist us in asserting these allegations and crafting a way forward." The Democratic Alliance's Refiloe Ntsheka says they wanted the court ensure that Madonsela is the one who tables the state capture report. "We are concerned about the report moving from her to the incoming public protector, but we need to allow the court to run its course." The Economic Freedom Fighters' Godrich Gardee believes they have a strong enough case to ensure the report is released. "We are encouraged by the court and other parties in the matter. Come 1 November, we'll have a very good fight." The court was told the report makes no findings or recommendations against those implicated. Opposition parties also made an application in court which saw them settle for a draft order to keep the content of Madonsela's report unchanged. New Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane says she will prioritise the state capture report once she begins her tenure.