One person died and more than a 100 passengers sustained minor to moderate wounds. JOHANNESBURG - More provincialandprivate ambulances have been dispatched to assist with the transportation of injured patients following a train accident in Tembisa. One person was killed and more than a 100 passengers sustained minor to moderate wounds. Two trains collided on the rail split from Kaalfontein Station towards the Oakmoor and Tembisa Stations. #TrainCrash Pics from the scene show some with injuries being treated, while others wait to be, and the point of collission. @ThomHolder pic.twitter.com/lTqrHWmNiK&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 24, 2016 #TrainCrash Pics from the scene show some with injuries being treated, while others wait to be, and the point of collission. @ThomHolder pic.twitter.com/lTqrHWmNiK #TrainCrash hundreds of passengers sit on the trackside, while medical and police personnel search the wreckage. TH pic.twitter.com/oVWHKbRLgl&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 24, 2016 #TrainCrash hundreds of passengers sit on the trackside, while medical and police personnel search the wreckage. TH pic.twitter.com/oVWHKbRLgl #TrainAccident CM pic.twitter.com/pJkPAtYiB2&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 24, 2016 #TrainAccident CM pic.twitter.com/pJkPAtYiB2 Paramedics are continuing to treat patients who are still on the scene of the accident and waiting for ambulances to be transported to hospital. Paramedics are loading seriously wounded patients onto stretchers for immediate treatment. Ekurhuleni disaster management spokesperson William Ntladi says they had to bring in additional support. Apparently the two trains were moving in two different directions but on the same lane. That resulted in them colliding head on, leaving one male being declared dead on site. Two carriagesderailed and authorities say they are now engaging with the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa. PATIENTS NOT ATTENDED TO Some passengers who were injured during the accident have raised frustrations about waiting too long for medical treatment. There are still injured passengers sitting and lying on the scene of the accident. Emergency services have set up a triage area and are treating patients whove been severely injured. Those with moderate and minor injuries are being transported to hospital. But some of injured like Alfred Ledwaba, who was bleeding from his eyebrow, says hes been waiting for far too long. It happened around 1pm, what time it is now? And no one has attended to me. We are just being moved from one place to another and no one is helping us. I have pain on my right breast. Additional provincialandprivate ambulances have been brought in to assist with the transportation of the injured patients.