A petrol bomb was set alight inside a bus that was carrying Wits students on board last night. JOHANNESBURG - A Wits University student who was on a burning bus has described to Eyewitness News the panic and fear she felt as they scrambled to get off and run to safety. A petrol bomb was set alight inside the bus last night,with students on board making their way from the main campus to their residences. A student who was on the bus at the time of the incident says it is impractical for the university to expect academic activity to continue amid these kinds of attacks. As the bus turned around the corner it started burning. People started screaming and then the bus driver got off the bus and people had to struggle to get off the bus. It was very traumatizing to think that exams are around the corner and we were on our way to school to study. Earlier a Rea Vaya bus carrying dozens of passengers was ambushed and its occupants ordered to get off before it was set alight. #Braamfontein Fire fighters have extinguished a #Wits bus that was set alight earlier. CE pic.twitter.com/gaocgICxV7&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 25, 2016 #Braamfontein Fire fighters have extinguished a #Wits bus that was set alight earlier. CE pic.twitter.com/gaocgICxV7 The incident followed the burning of a police van allegedly by a group of protestors. #Fees2017 #Wits what remains of a police van which was set alight earlier this evening. MC pic.twitter.com/u7IEwjCXHY&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 25, 2016 #Fees2017 #Wits what remains of a police van which was set alight earlier this evening. MC pic.twitter.com/u7IEwjCXHY The police's Kay Makhubela saysthey're investigating whether three arson attacks and overnight demonstrations in Braamfontein are linked to the ongoing #FeesMustFall protests. We have managed to get the CCTV footage which we believe will assist us in our investigation. Earlier there were clashes between students and police when a group of protestors allegedly tried to block motorists from passing through Jan Smuts avenue. Makhubela says: At the moment we are investigating a case of malicious damage to property, but we cant rule out the issue of protests, but we have got no evidence to say that right now.