The 21-year-old and his girlfriend Danielle Janse van Rensburg appeared in court for the possession of dagga. CAPE TOWN &ndash; The National Institute for Crime Prevention (Nicro) and the Reintegration of Offenders is compiling a report in&nbsp;the drug possession case&nbsp;against family axe murder accused&nbsp;Henri van Breda. The 21-year-old and his girlfriend Danielle Janse van Rensburg appeared in court this morning for the possession of dagga. They appeared in court last week when the case was postponed due to outstanding paperwork. Van Breda and Janse van Rensburg are back in court in April. The court is still awaiting assessment reports from Nicro on Van Breda. The Non-Governmental Organisation specialises in research on social crime prevention and the reintegration of offenders. Van Breda and Janse van Rensburg&rsquo;s bail is extended to next year. The court has previously heard the dagga found on the couple last month belonged to Janse van Rensburg. Meanwhile, Van Breda&rsquo;s pre-trial hearing for the murders of his parents and older brother, and for attempted murder of his younger sister, resumes next month. CAPE TOWN &ndash; The National Institute for Crime Prevention (Nicro) and the Reintegration of Offenders is compiling a report in&nbsp;the drug possession case&nbsp;against family axe murder accused&nbsp;Henri van Breda.The 21-year-old and his girlfriend Danielle Janse van Rensburg appeared in court this morning for the possession of dagga.They appeared in court last week when the case was postponed due to outstanding paperwork.Van Breda and Janse van Rensburg are back in court in April.The court is still awaiting assessment reports from Nicro on Van Breda.The Non-Governmental Organisation specialises in research on social crime prevention and the reintegration of offenders.Van Breda and Janse van Rensburg&rsquo;s bail is extended to next year.The court has previously heard the dagga found on the couple last month belonged to Janse van Rensburg.Meanwhile, Van Breda&rsquo;s pre-trial hearing for the murders of his parents and older brother, and for attempted murder of his younger sister, resumes next month.