Chyna, who has been living apart from Rob, admitted she was unsure how much longer she could cope. LOS ANGELES - Blac Chyna's mother Tokyo Toni urged her to "be a single mom again" after partner Rob Kardashian disappeared following a row. The 28-year-old make-up artist, who has a three-year-old son, King Cairo, with ex-boyfriend Tyga, turned to her mum Tokyo Toni for support after her fiance Rob Kardashian disappeared and blocked her number following an explosive argument. And Toni told her daughter, who is due to give birth to Rob's baby next month, she felt the sock designer had too many issues to be able to love her properly, and she should seriously consider raising their baby by herself. Toni said: "My advice to you would be not to move in with him, stop communicating about his issues because he don't care himself. Just like you have to love yourself before you can love somebody else. So he can't love you the way he's supposed to. "You just need to go ahead and be a single mom again, it's just simple as that. You gotta believe you know that you gonna be alright. Have your baby, be happy, that's my advice." And Chyna, who has been living apart from Rob, admitted she was unsure how much longer she could cope with their "yo-yo" relationship. Speaking on 'Rob & Chyna' in scenes which aired on Sunday (09.10.16), she said: "I just feel like it's a yo-yo game with me and Rob and I don't know how much longer I can do this because I know once the baby comes things are definitely going to change." Despite Rob's disappearance, Chyna decided to attend his grandmother MJ's birthday celebration in San Diego without him, and while out at the family dinner, she discovered the 29-year-old star had also blocked his mother Kris Jenner and sisters from contacting him. She had a heart-to-heart with his older sister, Kim Kardashian West, about how "frustrating" her relationship with Rob can be because he "really thinks sometimes" that she doesn't love him as she isn't as affectionate as he is. Kim, 35, urged Chyna to talk to Rob but admitted his problems all stemmed from "within himself". She said: "We've all tried to come at him in different ways and with our own personalities and he's not gone for any of it. So it's nothing that any of us have done, it's really within himself. I just hope he gets it together for the baby." Rob eventually reappeared and told Kris he'd been in Las Vegas and hadn't wanted to hear from anyone, prompting his mother to tearfully urge him to be more responsible. She told him: "I just want you to be responsible because you're going to have a baby and you can't just leave town. "All I need is, 'Mom I'm good, don't worry, I love you' and that would've been one little text."