Minister Mokonyane says there is a fairly constant drop in water levels of 0.7 percent week-on-week. JOHANNESBURG &ndash; Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane says this week&rsquo;s assessments have shown that average dam levels are down by 0.7 percent to 49.4 percent. Mokonyane says there is a fairly constant drop in water levels of 0.7 percent week-on-week compared to the drop of 0.9 percent at the same time last year, when levels were at 67.8 percent. She says all provinces reflect a decline in dam levels week on week. Minister Mokonyane says while the seasonal outlook for rain is still not very promising some rain is predicted until tomorrow for the eastern highveld and interior, with typical thunderstorms expected. She says November to January favours above normal rainfall, which will persist during December to February. However, she also says this doesn&rsquo;t mean the country is out of the woods. Her spokesperson Mlimandlela Ndamase says,&ldquo;It&rsquo;s becoming more and more serious every day, and it requires that we as citizens and consumers start to take it as seriously as it is. We need to start using water wisely.&rdquo; Earlier this month, the minister said the Vaal Dam is reaching a dangerous level and if water usage is not decreased this dam will hit the 25 percent mark by next month. (Edited by Masechaba Sefularo) JOHANNESBURG &ndash; Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane says this week&rsquo;s assessments have shown that average dam levels are down by 0.7 percent to 49.4 percent.Mokonyane says there is a fairly constant drop in water levels of 0.7 percent week-on-week compared to the drop of 0.9 percent at the same time last year, when levels were at 67.8 percent. She says all provinces reflect a decline in dam levels week on week.Minister Mokonyane says while the seasonal outlook for rain is still not very promising some rain is predicted until tomorrow for the eastern highveld and interior, with typical thunderstorms expected. She says November to January favours above normal rainfall, which will persist during December to February.However, she also says this doesn&rsquo;t mean the country is out of the woods.Her spokesperson Mlimandlela Ndamase says,&ldquo;It&rsquo;s becoming more and more serious every day, and it requires that we as citizens and consumers start to take it as seriously as it is. We need to start using water wisely.&rdquo;Earlier this month, the minister said the Vaal Dam is reaching a dangerous level and if water usage is not decreased this dam will hit the 25 percent mark by next month. (Edited by Masechaba Sefularo)