Nathi Nhleko appeared to criticise Parliament on the disciplinary process for Robert McBride. JOHANNESBURG The National Assembly speaker Baleka Mbete says a statement from Police Minister Nkosinathi Nhleko that he was worried about how Parliament didnt follow the proper procedures in time to stop Robert McBride from returning to work is unprecedented, unwarranted and unfortunate. Earlier this week Nhleko appeared to criticise Parliament for not starting a disciplinary process for McBride within the timeframe stipulated by a Constitutional Court ruling. This allowed McBride to return to work as the executive director of the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) this week. In a statement, Mbete says she has noted the police ministers statement with grave concern. She says that this statement casts aspersions on Parliaments processes and that she is now going to take this up with the leader of government business, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa. This statement appears to suggest the National Assembly speaker is frustrated with Nhlekos comments and that she believes it was not possible for Parliament to have acted in time to stop McBride from returning to work. Meanwhile, the office of the ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu issued a statement on Friday night describing Nhlekos utterances as unfortunate. The Office of the ANC Chief Whip has noted with concern the utterances made by the Minister of Police, Cde Nathi Nhleko, regarding the manner in which Parliament handled his request in connection with Ipid Head Robert McBrides court outcome. The Ministers statement unfortunately cast aspersions on the Speaker of the National Assembly and reflects disrespectfully against Parliament as an institution. Both the Speaker and Parliaments handling of the Ministers request and the fulfillment of their responsibilities as enjoined by the Court judgment enjoy our full support. The Ministers request was processed firmly in line with the rules and processes of Parliament, taking into account its constitutional obligations. The Ministers posture and tone, including certain inferences he made against ANC Caucus internal structures, were unnecessary and unwarranted. We concur with the Speaker that the intervention of the Leader of Government Business, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, must be immediately sought regarding the Minister's remarks.