Harper Beckham is only five years old, but her 42-year-old mum says she's 'very sociable'. LOS ANGELES - Victoria Beckham says her five-year-old daughter Harper has a "better social life" than her and has "a lot of friends" she regularly plays with. Harper Beckham is only five years old, but her 42-year-old mum says she's "very sociable" and has "a lot of friends". The fashion designer also has three sons, Brooklyn, 17, Romeo, 14, and Cruz, 11, with her husband David Beckham and it makes her very proud to see them all "happy" and "confident". She told the November issue of Vogue Australia magazine, "[Harper] works very hard at school and is very sociable, so has a lot of friends. She has a better social life than I do! My children are all very happy and that's the most crucial thing - they are happy, confident and secure in themselves." Victoria's latest comments come after she admitted she doesn't have much of a "social life" because her four children are her "first priority" in life. The former Spice Girl said, "[I don't] have a social life. My four children and David are my first priority. When there's a play on or a parent/teacher meeting, I'm there. David and I are rarely away at the same time. We do the homework, the bath time and the bed time. Paying someone to do those things for you to make your life easier isn't wrong but they're important to me." And whilst Victoria can't say for sure if her children will follow in her footsteps and get involved with her self-titled fashion label, the kids are showing an interest in her line of work and share her passion for style. She said previously, "Brooklyn wants to be a photographer, he loves art. Obviously he shot the fragrance campaign for Burberry, so maybe he'll be a fashion photographer. "Romeo enjoyed working with Burberry too, and Harper and Cruz are too young to tell, but they love fashion. "They all take a lot of pride in the way they look. When we go out for dinner as a family, they all put their little looks together. Cruz spends a lot of time making sure his hair is just right."