The minister has warned of rising discontent over the state of the South African economy. CAPE TOWN - Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan has warned of major risks to the economy, with government planning to raise taxes and cut spending. Delivering his medium-term budget policy statement yesterday, Gordhan warned of rising discontent over the state of the economy that is compounded by volatile student protests. &quot;If we are to nurture the green shoots that many of us talk about in our economy, then a holistic package of measures must be implemented by all of us. No one measure will work.&quot; He says while the economic challenges are not hopeless, the country is at a turning point. The minister says the revenue's shortfall this year is expected to be R23 billion and he'll be looking for a total of R43 billion in extra revenue over the next three years. &quot;The impact of slow GDP growth on revenue and debt sustainability is a risk. Unplanned expenditure pressures, including drought, in the government wage bill and other programmes is a risk.&quot; Gordhan says the government wage bill will be reduced by department's not replacing staff. He's announced and extra R17,6 billion for higher education and training over the next three years. Funding education is a priority, as is containing the state's wage bill. &quot;Following a 20% increase in government employment between 2006 and 2011, personnel expenditure now has to be contained through attrition in numbers, more moderate wage increases and rationalisation of the organisational structure of the state. Tough tasks.&quot; The finance minister says a long-term solution to the fees crisis must be found. He also addressed problems at state-owned entities, saying measures have been put in place to turn them around. &quot;Full strength boards have been appointed as SAA and the post office, these reform efforts will improve financial sustainability and enhance the delivery capacity of state-owned companies in the interest of inclusive growth.&quot; He goes on to say that economies are under pressure globally. &quot;Global growth is forecasted at 3,1 for 2016 and 3,4 for 2017. Low interest rates and monetary expansion in the United States, Europe and Japan have contributed to capital inflows into developing countries.&quot;