Renewed protests have erupted on the University of the Western Cape s Bellville Campus. CAPE TOWN -Police have opened fire with rubber bullets at the University of the Western Cape's Bellville campus following renewed protests.&nbsp; Some students say they are outraged because they expected a meeting with management today. A police Nyala chased a group of about ten students and rubber bullets were reportedly fired. Students claim management on Monday agreed to meet with them today. Management has released a statement saying full scale student engagements will no longer be entertained, because it does nothing to address the issues. #Fees2017 #UWC Some students - vacating their residences - expressing frustration with the situation. KB pic.twitter.com/iiBTGU6XRa &mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 19, 2016 UWC says they will only hold smaller meetings between 'Fees Must Fall' representatives, the SRC and other student bodies. The institution denies agreeing to interact with protesting students today.&nbsp; Meanwhile, UWC says meeting student demands has will cost an estimated R530 million. Management has today released a statement outlining its response to a list 40 demands from protesting students. UWC was also expected to provide an update on the 2016 academic program.&nbsp; The institution says to provide internet data to 18,000 students will cost at least R43.2 million per year. Free sanitary towels for 60 percent of students will set them back R6 million annually.&nbsp; To run the library and computer labs for 24-hours every day of the week, an additional R3 million will need to be found in the budget. UWC's Luthando Tyhalibongo says steps have also been taken to address the housing shortage on campus. Management has also agreed to allow students with outstanding debt to symbolically graduate at the end the year. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange) Some students say they are outraged because they expected a meeting with management today. A police Nyala chased a group of about ten students and rubber bullets were reportedly fired.Students claim management on Monday agreed to meet with them today. Management has released a statement saying full scale student engagements will no longer be entertained, because it does nothing to address the issues.#Fees2017 #UWC Some students - vacating their residences - expressing frustration with the situation. KB pic.twitter.com/iiBTGU6XRa UWC says they will only hold smaller meetings between 'Fees Must Fall' representatives, the SRC and other student bodies. The institution denies agreeing to interact with protesting students today.&nbsp; Meanwhile, UWC says meeting student demands has will cost an estimated R530 million. Management has today released a statement outlining its response to a list 40 demands from protesting students. UWC was also expected to provide an update on the 2016 academic program.&nbsp; The institution says to provide internet data to 18,000 students will cost at least R43.2 million per year. Free sanitary towels for 60 percent of students will set them back R6 million annually.&nbsp; To run the library and computer labs for 24-hours every day of the week, an additional R3 million will need to be found in the budget. UWC's Luthando Tyhalibongo says steps have also been taken to address the housing shortage on campus.Management has also agreed to allow students with outstanding debt to symbolically graduate at the end the year. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)