The defence requested more time to interrogate records of a cellphone linked to Jayde Panayiotous murder. PORT ELIZABETH The defence for alleged wife killer Christopher Panayiotouhas asked for a postponement to give them time to study a witnesss cellphone records. #PanayiotouTrial Defence: I&#39;m afraid i&#39;m going to need more time with cellphone records. Request postponement to Monday. SC&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 21, 2016 #PanayiotouTrial Defence: I&#39;m afraid i&#39;m going to need more time with cellphone records. Request postponement to Monday. SC A former employee of Panayiotou has testified the Port Elizabeth (PE) businessman used his cellphone to communicate with the alleged middleman in the plot to kill Jayde Panayiotou. Panayiotou and two others are standing trial in the PE High Court. Defence advocate Terry Price says 27 calls were placed between Mawonga Ndedwaand alleged middle man Luthando Siyoni in the weeks leading to Jayde Panayiotouskidnapping and murder. Ndedwa claims he had no reason to contact Siyoni, who worked as a bouncer at Panayiotous nightclub, because they were not friends. The state has alleged Panayiotou used the handymansphone to contact Siyoni, who allegedly found hitmen to execute his wife. The defence, however, argues Ndedwa is downplaying his relationship with Siyoni. They will try to establish whether any of the calls to Siyoni was made by the witness and not Panayiotou. DEFENCE POKES HOLES IN STATE WITNESSS TESTIMONY Ndedwa this week he told the court he discovered a bag containing R30,000 in a storeroom a week before Jaydes murder. He claims the money was meant for alleged middle man Siyoni. But the defense has highlighted that in his police affidavit, Ndedwa claimed to have found the money a month before the murder. He appeared to be confused about the exact dates and could not give a straight answer. The witness had also testified Panayiotou paid him R1,000 to get rid of his personal cellphone that was allegedly used to contact Siyoni. The defence has argued Ndedwa would often ask for a salary advance and the requested amount would always be R1,000.