NPA head Shaun Abrahams is still to decide on whether to proceed with the prosecution. JOHANNESBURG - The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) says further investigations into fraud charges against Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and former Sars officials Ivan Pillay and Oupa Magashula are now complete and a decision will now be made on whether or not to drop the charges. Yesterday, the City Press reported that informal discussions were underway between Gordhan's lawyers and those of Pillay and Magashula. They have been charged with fraud in relation to the early retirement and reemployment of Pillay. Earlier this month, Pillay and Magashula requested Shaun Abrahams review the charges against them with Gordhan rejecting an invitation to ask for the charges against him to be reviewed. The NPA says there is no truth to reports that Abrahams has decided to drop charges against Gordhan and the two Sars officials. NPA spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaku says after Pillay and Magashula made representations, Abrahams instructed that further investigations be conducted to clarify some issues. &quot;Now that process has been completed. He's now applying his mind to the matter as a decision has not been taken.&quot; But according to the newspaper, Abrahams has drafted a letter which is expected to communicate his intention to drop the fraud charges before the trio appear in court on Wednesday. SHAUN ABRAHAMS BETWEEN ROCK &amp; HARD PLACE If Abrahams does decide to simply withdraw these charges against Gordhan, he's likely to face calls to resign. He will be asked why he laid the charges in the first place, if it was all a political ploy and if he is actually competent to do his job. But if Abrahams decides to allow the charges to go ahead, he risks later embarrassment in court. If the charges are then thrown out, he could actually face a challenge to his own fitness for office. Abrahams himself has said the NPA is properly independent, he may feel he needs to find a way to prove that what he said is true.