The final, at Free State Stadium, kicks off at 16:00pm on Saturday. JOHANNESBURG - The unbeaten Cheetahs continued with their impressive run in this year&rsquo;s Currie Cup, thrashing the reigning champions, the Lions, to book their spot in the competition&rsquo;s final. It&rsquo;s their first home final since 2007. The Cheetahs ran in six tries through Neill Jordaan, Ryno Benjamin, Clayton Blommetjies and a hat-trick from Sergeal Petersen to run out 55-17 winners after leading 26-0 at half time. The Lions suffered another blow after losing Julian Redelinghuys to injury. The Springbok prop dislocated his neck at the C5/6 level. He spent the night in traction at a Bloemfontein hospital and is set to have surgery on Sunday. Over in Pretoria, the Bulls left it late, but were able to beat Western Province 36-30 to book their spot in the final. Replacement scrumhalf Ivan van Zyl scored a try in the 78th minute to see his team over the line in front of their home fans. It is the Bulls&rsquo; first final since 2009. The final, at Free State Stadium, kicks off at 16:00pm on Saturday. (Edited by Shimoney Regter) JOHANNESBURG - The unbeaten Cheetahs continued with their impressive run in this year&rsquo;s Currie Cup, thrashing the reigning champions, the Lions, to book their spot in the competition&rsquo;s final. It&rsquo;s their first home final since 2007.The Cheetahs ran in six tries through Neill Jordaan, Ryno Benjamin, Clayton Blommetjies and a hat-trick from Sergeal Petersen to run out 55-17 winners after leading 26-0 at half time.The Lions suffered another blow after losing Julian Redelinghuys to injury. The Springbok prop dislocated his neck at the C5/6 level. He spent the night in traction at a Bloemfontein hospital and is set to have surgery on Sunday.Over in Pretoria, the Bulls left it late, but were able to beat Western Province 36-30 to book their spot in the final.Replacement scrumhalf Ivan van Zyl scored a try in the 78th minute to see his team over the line in front of their home fans.It is the Bulls&rsquo; first final since 2009.The final, at Free State Stadium, kicks off at 16:00pm on Saturday.(Edited by Shimoney Regter)