The incident is under investigation and its unclear if the arson attack is linked to student protests. CAPE TOWN - Four vehicles have been torched at the Univer sity of Cape Town s (UCT) Lower Campus. The university has this morning confirmed the vehicles appeared to have been petrol bombed. TW: fire, police. Multiple cars aflame on Chapel Road near Baxter Residence on #UCT Lower Campus. Fire trucks and police on scene. pic.twitter.com/GOjR4Xkpp8&mdash; Cass Da Cruz (@CassDaCruz) October 25, 2016 TW: fire, police. Multiple cars aflame on Chapel Road near Baxter Residence on #UCT Lower Campus. Fire trucks and police on scene. pic.twitter.com/GOjR4Xkpp8 The incident is under investigation and its unclear if the arson attack is linked to student protests. A student whose car was gutted says a friend alerted him to the fire. This morning a friend of mine who lives in the Baxter residence called me because there was a fire behind the residence where we park our cars. I checked and the cars were on fire. Campus security was already there. The universitys spokesperson Elijah Moholola says four cars were set alight. The university condemns this unlawful act on the strongest possible terms. Yesterday, a number of vehicles were set alight at the Cape Penin sula Univer sity of Technology s Bellville campus. It is alleged protesting students torched the vehicles. Its understood they were unhappy with the outcomes of a stakeholder meeting held by management on Sunday night. #Fees2017 #CPUT He says he received the complaints before the cars were torched. KB pic.twitter.com/m0xGPRkfzO&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 24, 2016 #Fees2017 #CPUT He says he received the complaints before the cars were torched. KB pic.twitter.com/m0xGPRkfzO Police have advised firefighters and other emergency personnel not to enter the Bellville campus due to student volatility. #Fees2017 #CPUT a security officer claims the current security company is being targeted by employees of the previous company. KB pic.twitter.com/671S0Pxi52&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 24, 2016 #Fees2017 #CPUT a security officer claims the current security company is being targeted by employees of the previous company. KB pic.twitter.com/671S0Pxi52