Abrahams has reportedly drafted a letter which is expected to communicate his intention to drop the charges. JOHANNESBURG - It's being reported that National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) Head Shaun Abrahams is considering dropping the charges against Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan before his court appearance this Wednesday. The City Press is reporting that informal discussions are now underway between Gordhan's lawyers and those of former South African Revenue Services (Sars) officials Ivan Pillay and Oupa Magashule who have been charged with fraud. The trio are expected to appear in the Pretoria Magistrates Court for the awarding of an early retirement package to Pillay, who was then later reinstated as a contractor. Abrahams has reportedly drafted a letter which is expected to communicate his intention to drop the fraud charges against Gordhan and others. At the same time, civil society groups and political parties have planned a march for that day in support of the finance minister and calling for the resignation of President Jacob Zuma. According to the paper, the letter was being drafted yesterday and is likely to be sent to the three accused before they appear in court on Wednesday. It goes on to say that another possible reason for Abrahams' decision to backtrack was the alleged kidnapping and assault of Sars official Vlok Symington. Symington mistakenly received a copy of an email detailing how a revenue service lawyer disagreed with the case against Gordhan. Gordhan refused to make representations before the NPA earlier this month, while Symington has now been removed from the witness list ahead of the court appearance this week. FREEDOM UNDER LAW SAY CHARGES HOPELESS Freedom Under Law and the Helen Suzman Foundation say the NPA has attempted to prop up its prosecution against Gordhan that was clearly hopeless from the start. In a supplementary affidavit filed file last week, the organisations stated they have become aware the NPA issued a subpoena to the Government Pensions Administration Agency to provide documents that explain the approval of requests for early retirement. The NPA's decision to charge the Finance Minister has been highly criticised by legal experts, political and business leaders, with calls for the charges to be withdrawn. However, it was revealed that the NPA is still collecting evidence against Gordhan nine days after announcing he would be charged with fraud. Freedom Under Law and the Helen Suzman Foundation say this is information the NPA should have gathered long before any decision to prosecute was made, and the NPA's failure to do so underlines the irrationality and unlawfulness of its decision. President Zuma made it clear that he cannot interfere in the criminal prosecution hanging over the minister's head, saying that if he did, it could turn South A