Hawks officers have reportedly been charged over an alleged assault of a Sars employee. JOHANNESBURG - The Hawks say they find it odd that the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) has asked some of its officers, to give a warning statement, just two hours after a charge was laid against them, that they'd been involved in holding a senior South African Revenue Service (Sars) official against his will.Yesterday, video evidence emerged, that the Hawks and the bodyguard of Sars Commissioner Tom Moyane, had forced Vlok Symington to give up a document in his possession.Moyane had emailed him the document by mistake, and it proved that a Sars lawyer disagreed with the decision to prosecute Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. #SARShostage SARS attorney declined to help the Hawks obtain the statement from Symington. BB pic.twitter.com/0XpsgOEZe8&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 27, 2016 #SARShostage SARS attorney declined to help the Hawks obtain the statement from Symington. BB pic.twitter.com/0XpsgOEZe8 Symington recorded his entire interaction as he was kept inside a boardroom and prevented from leaving until he handed over a document. He recorded the moment other staff identify one of his captors as Commissioner Tom Moyane s bodyguard. This guy doesn t want to allow me out of this office, he s keeping me against my will and I don t even know who he is. The guard eventually let him past, but he was set upon by Hawks officials waiting outside. Ipid says it s investigating a case of kidnapping. #SARShostage among the alleged hostage takers was CATS boss Brig Nyameka Xaba (left). BB pic.twitter.com/V1XRcUqNFd&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 27, 2016 #SARShostage among the alleged hostage takers was CATS boss Brig Nyameka Xaba (left). BB pic.twitter.com/V1XRcUqNFd The Hawks say this incident occurred last week Tuesday, but that Symington did not mention it when he made a statement to the unit about the Gordhan case.The unit says Symington only laid the charge on Tuesday. #SARShostage SARS commissioner Tom Moyanes bodyguard, Thabo Titi. He blocked the door. BB pic.twitter.com/dcfCrDFI21&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 27, 2016 #SARShostage SARS commissioner Tom Moyanes bodyguard, Thabo Titi. He blocked the door. BB pic.twitter.com/dcfCrDFI21 Two hours after our members were requested to give a warning statement, that s something that s unheard of. Robert McBride returned to work as the Ipid head last week after the Constitutional Court said his continued suspension was illegal.McBride had previous warned Gordhan that the Hawks could target him.Meanwhile, while Sars has issued a statement in relation to an alleged hostage incident, it has not explained why Moyane s bodyguard was helping the Hawks forcefully retrieve a document from Symington.The Hawks head of the crimes against the state unit, Brigadier Nyameka Xaba and several colleagues were at Sars last week to obtain a statement related to the prosecution of Gordhan.(Edited by Zamangwane Shange)