CSA recently agreed to a minimum of 54% black players and a minimum of 18% black African players. CAPE TOWN &ndash; Proteas captain Faf Du Plessis says his team embrace transformation in cricket and believes the South African public can see now that there is enough ability in the nation for the targets not to become a divisive issue. &nbsp; Cricket South Africa (CSA) recently agreed to a minimum of 54 percent black players and a minimum of 18 percent black African players across the season and across all formats. &nbsp; It must be noted that the examination of how effectively the new targets are implemented will be done from a seasonal point of view and not a match-by-match basis - the targets were already effective in the recent successful One Day International (ODI) against Australia.&nbsp; &nbsp; Speaking after South Africa&rsquo;s historic 5-0 series whitewashing of Australia, it was the first time the visitors had ever suffered such a severe defeat in a five match ODI series. Du Plessis hopes the negative sentiment surrounding the adoption of targets can now subside after the recent success. &nbsp; &ldquo;People will relax now, and see that [targets] are not that bad. I think there was a lot, especially from a public point of view, people were expecting big changes and big series defeats and stuff so people can relax now and see there is enough talent in South Africa not matter what colour you are.&rdquo; &nbsp; Du Plessis believes the evidence is there to see that South African cricket in is good shape and says the team understand the reasons for transformation. He believes South Africa will continue to be one of the best teams on the world stage. &nbsp; &ldquo;There has been great performances this series from everyone, all different kinds of colour. Our cricket is in a healthy state, so people can be confident that even with those targets we are a force to be reckoned with. So for us as a team, we certainly see don&rsquo;t see it as a negative. We have always tried to embrace it,&rdquo; said the victorious captain. &nbsp; Du Plessis says now that CSA have been transparent about the expected targets, it will help for better understanding from the South African public.&nbsp; &nbsp; &ldquo;A positive thing is that it&rsquo;s actually open and there is an honest policy out there. There is no more what the public think is going on and the realities of where the team are, it&rsquo;s an open thing and everyone knows what it is all about and everyone can buy into it. I think as long as you honest and open about everything you trying to do, you can move forward.&rdquo; &nbsp; South Africa will continue their rivalry with Australia as they embark on a three match Test series starting in Perth on 3 November, the team leaves on Sunday. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza) CAPE TOWN &ndash; Proteas captain Faf Du Plessis says his team embrace transformation in cricket and believes the South African public can see now that there is enough ability in the nation for the targets not to become a divisive issue. &nbsp; Cricket South Africa (CSA) recently agreed to a minimum of 54 percent black players and a minimum of 18 percent black African players across the season and across all formats. &nbsp; It must be noted that the examination of how effectively the new targets are implemented will be done from a seasonal point of view and not a match-by-match basis - the targets were already effective in the recent successful One Day International (ODI) against Australia.&nbsp; &nbsp; Speaking after South Africa&rsquo;s historic 5-0 series whitewashing of Australia, it was the first time the visitors had ever suffered such a severe defeat in a five match ODI series. Du Plessis hopes the negative sentiment surrounding the adoption of targets can now subside after the recent success. &nbsp; &ldquo;People will relax now, and see that [targets] are not that bad. I think there was a lot, especially from a public point of view, people were expecting big changes and big series defeats and stuff so people can relax now and see there is enough talent in South Africa not matter what colour you are.&rdquo; &nbsp; Du Plessis believes the evidence is there to see that South African cricket in is good shape and says the team understand the reasons for transformation. He believes South Africa will continue to be one of the best teams on the world stage. &nbsp; &ldquo;There has been great performances this series from everyone, all different kinds of colour. Our cricket is in a healthy state, so people can be confident that even with those targets we are a force to be reckoned with. So for us as a team, we certainly see don&rsquo;t see it as a negative. We have always tried to embrace it,&rdquo; said the victorious captain. &nbsp; Du Plessis says now that CSA have been transparent about the expected targets, it will help for better understanding from the South African public.&nbsp; &nbsp; &ldquo;A positive thing is that it&rsquo;s actually open and there is an honest policy out there. There is no more what the public think is going on and the realities of where the team are, it&rsquo;s an open thing and everyone knows what it is all about and everyone can buy into it. I think as long as you honest and open about everything you trying to do, you can move forward.&rdquo; &nbsp; South Africa will continue their rivalry with Australia as they embark on a three match Test series starting in Perth on 3 November, the team leaves on Sunday.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)