NPA head Shaun Abrahams called a press briefing early on Tuesday morning in Pretoria. JOHANNESBURG - Eyewitness News has learnt that a formal summons has now been issued for Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan.  NPA head Shaun Abrahams called for a press briefing in Pretoria on Tuesday morning. WATCH: NPA outlines reasons behind Gordhan summons  It's understood that the summons is for a charge of fraud.  It has been issued for Gordhan, former Sars commissioner Oupa Magashula and former deputy Sars Commissioner Ivan Pillay.  The minister has been listed as accused number one. It's believed the charge of fraud relates to the pay-out made by Sars to Pillay when he took early retirement. Abrahams says the formation of the unit was simply against the South African Constitution. "No other conclusion can be deduced other than the fact that the creation of the Sars high-risk investigation unit was built in conflict with and violation of the legal mandate of Sars in terms of the Sars Act, the National Strategic Intelligence Act and Chapter 11 of our Constitution." Abrahams also quoted a part of the Constitution, regarding the president being the only person who can form an intelligence service. "Section 209 of the Constitution enjoins, and I wish to emphasise this, the president of the republic as head of the national executive as the only one who may establish an intelligence service, other than any intelligence division by the SA Defence Force or police service. The president may, however, only exercise such power in terms of national legislation." Reuters is reporting that the finance minister said the summons was hand delivered to his house by a brigadier, but that he was not home at the time. Gordhan said he will appear in court on 2 November, adding his lawyers will issue a statement in a short while. RAND At 10am, the rand was trading at R17,11 to the British pound, R13,91 to the US dollar and R15,49 to the euro. By 10:20am, it was trading at R17,49 to the pound, R14,23 to the dollar and R15,82 to the euro. GORDHAN ON INVESTIGATION Last week, Gordhan told Bloomberg TV in New York the Hawks' investigation into him was no more than a bit of political mischief. Gordhan said the investigation into him would be resolved and it was just a bit of political mischief that all countries have from time to time. More to follow on this developing story.