The president is currently addressing the Heads of Missions Conference in Pretoria. JOHANNESBURG -&nbsp;President Jacob Zuma&nbsp;has told South Africa's heads of&nbsp;diplomatic missions abroad that they have a responsibility to build friendships and partnerships oversees, in order to help&nbsp;boost South Africa&nbsp;economic growth.&nbsp; Zuma&nbsp;is addressing the Heads of Missions Conference in Pretoria, where he has spent a considerable amount of time talking about the economy. He says the commissioners&nbsp;must have the country in mind. &ldquo;As our representative abroad you have a responsibility to build friendships and partnerships that will help us achieve these goals. The economy remains the apex priority and we want to achieve inclusive growth, jobs and a decent life for our people.&rdquo; Zuma also warned the economy still faces major challenges despite growing by&nbsp;3.3 percent in the second quarter after contracting in the first. He&rsquo;s also told commissioners that they have an important role to play. "You are our foremost marketing and promotion office. You need to continue to position our country positively and help us grow the economy through global economic partnerships." He says ambassadors should familiarise themselves with the Nine-Point Plan for economic growth. Zuma also emphasised that there&rsquo;s a need to redouble efforts to rejuvenate the economy.&nbsp; The president also said he backs efforts by Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan to reassure investors about betting on the country. Investors have been nervous about Pretoria&rsquo;s commitment to sound economic policy, since Zuma changed finance ministers twice in less than a week in December. Fraud charges by the&nbsp;State against Gordhan&nbsp;announced last week have also hurt the markets. (Edited by Shimoney Regter) JOHANNESBURG -&nbsp;President Jacob Zuma&nbsp;has told South Africa's heads of&nbsp;diplomatic missions abroad that they have a responsibility to build friendships and partnerships oversees, in order to help&nbsp;boost South Africa&nbsp;economic growth.&nbsp;Zuma&nbsp;is addressing the Heads of Missions Conference in Pretoria, where he has spent a considerable amount of time talking about the economy.He says the commissioners&nbsp;must have the country in mind.&ldquo;As our representative abroad you have a responsibility to build friendships and partnerships that will help us achieve these goals. The economy remains the apex priority and we want to achieve inclusive growth, jobs and a decent life for our people.&rdquo;Zuma also warned the economy still faces major challenges despite growing by&nbsp;3.3 percent in the second quarter after contracting in the first. He&rsquo;s also told commissioners that they have an important role to play. "You are our foremost marketing and promotion office. You need to continue to position our country positively and help us grow the economy through global economic partnerships." He says ambassadors should familiarise themselves with the Nine-Point Plan for economic growth. Zuma also emphasised that there&rsquo;s a need to redouble efforts to rejuvenate the economy.&nbsp;The president also said he backs efforts by Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan to reassure investors about betting on the country.Investors have been nervous about Pretoria&rsquo;s commitment to sound economic policy, since Zuma changed finance ministers twice in less than a week in December.Fraud charges by the&nbsp;State against Gordhan&nbsp;announced last week have also hurt the markets.(Edited by Shimoney Regter)