The deputy president joined several senior ANC members in support of Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. JOHANNESBURG The African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL) has launched a scathing attack on Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa,calling him an unprincipled man with double standards. The ANCYL has told Eyewitness News it has no confidence in Ramaphosa and has criticised him for coming out in support of Fi na nce Mi nister Pravi n Gordha n. The league also says Ramaphosa should have expressed his full support for President Jacob Zuma at the Constitutional Court on the Nkandla matter. The deputy president joined several senior ANC members, including Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi, Tourism Minister Derek Hanekom and the party's chief whip Jackson Mthembu,in support of Gordhan. The finance minister is expected to appear in court next week on fraud charges related to the early retirement and re-employment of former Sars deputy commissioner Ivan Pillay. ANCYL's Secretary General Njabulo Nzuza says they have issues with Ramaphosa backing Gordhan. &quot;One is very disappointed with the deputy president. I think he has double standards.&quot; He says the minister has caused a fracas by diving institutions of state and by portraying a government at war with itself. &quot;We have a problem with him, issues of confidence and double standards.&quot; The league says if the deputy president was principled, he would have supported any leader in government who has been charged. &quot;He did not come out say I support President Jacob Zuma, he kept quiet. Why is he coming out now? He has double standards. On certain matters you support leaders of government and others not because they possess a high moral compass. Who owns this high moral compass?&quot; The ANCYL also wants the ANC's integrity committee to investigate Gordhan, saying the charges he faces have put a dent in the party's image. The league's Njabulo Nzuza says the committee must prove its own integrity by investigating Gordhan. &quot;When Marius Fransman was charged, the integrity committee zoomed in. Pravin Gordhan was also charged, the committee must also move in and it must not deal with matters in two different ways.&quot; He says the committees double standards has led the league to question the body's credibility.