Ramaphosa reacted to Nzuza's statement, calling them unfortunate and without substance. JOHANNESBURG - The African National Congress (ANC) has condemned comments by ANCYL General Secretary Njabula Nzuza for calling deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa an unprincipled man with double standards, saying the statement was unfortunate. In an exclusive interview with Eyewitness News this week, Nzuza criticised Ramaphosa for coming out in support of Finance Minister Parvin Gordhan who will be appearing in court on fraud charges on Wednesday, relating to the approval of the early retirement and reinstatement of former South African Revenue Services (Sars) deputy commissioner Ivan Pillay. Ramaphosa reacted to Nzuza's statement, calling them unfortunate and without substance. ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa says Nzuza was wrong to say Ramaphosa lacks principles and has divided institutions of state by portraying a government at war with itself. &quot;The Youth League does not agree with the society because the society is aggressive to the league, in as much as the ANC is against the Youth League.&quot; While the league said it has no confidence in Ramaphosa, Kodwa says the ANC and NEC does. Ramaphosa issued a public statement offering his &quot;political and moral support&quot; to Gordhan, after a week that saw the outgoing Public Protector advocate Thuli Madonsela's report into state capture being granted a protection order by a judge. &quot;Events of the past few days regarding summonses served on Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan have been of concern to many South Africans across all sectors of society,&quot; said Ramaphosa. &quot;As a member of the National Executive, I lend my support to Minister Gordhan as he faces charges brought against him by the National Prosecuting Authority. I have known and worked with Minister Gordhan both in government and during the days of the prosecution of the struggle for a non-racial, non-sexist democratic society. &quot;I have no doubt about his commitment in building a better South Africa for all. Like of all South Africans, Minister Gordhan remains subject to the laws of the country, and retains his right to remain silent, to be free from abuse of process, and to a legal defence.&quot;