Two cars were set alight on the campus and a number of lectures disrupted yesterday. JOHANNESBURG - Wits Universitysays it is determinedto finish the 2016 academic year despite continued attempted arson attacksat the institution. Yesterday, two cars were set alight on the campus and a number of lecturesdisrupted. This comes afterthree buildings were vandalised earlier this week either with petrol bombs or rocks and stones. Alibrary on the west campus was also set alight, leaving about a hundred books damaged. Wits spokesperson Shirona Patel says the university is tryingits bestto prevent a shutdown. There are massive implications if we were to shut down our school and that impacts on 37,000 lives, those are students who are currently registered. The impact on the 75,000 applications weve got for next year for 7,000 spaces. It has major implications on professional well have in the work place, whether its accountants, lawyers or teachers. Meanwhile at the University of Johannesburg, a small group of concerned parents is picketing outside the Soweto campus in solidarity with the # FeesMustFallmovement. #Fees2017 #UJ Parent says if gov Can&#39;t provide free education &quot;Campus must Shut Down&quot; WATCH pic.twitter.com/kTs04Lxm4z&mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) October 21, 2016 #Fees2017 #UJ Parent says if gov Can&#39;t provide free education &quot;Campus must Shut Down&quot; WATCH pic.twitter.com/kTs04Lxm4z A group of about eight parents are gathered there calling on Higher Education Minister Blade Nzimande to intervene in what they say is a crisis at tertiary institutions across the country. Nqobile Shezi says as a parent, she is here to support students calling for free education. We are supporting students in demanding #FeesMustFall because as the Freedom Charter states, there will be free quality education. But for students its business as usual here, with no sign of them joining the protest. They say theyre concentrating on their upcoming tests. Meanwhile, there are a few police officers keeping a close eye on this picket.